List of bounty offers for Alex K. Chen.

For each, there is a "start by" date and a "finish by" date. The start
by date is to encourage a reasonable starting time and reduce the risk
of substantial conflict in our ideas of what exactly the page should
contain.

Wherever it says "(to be determined)" that means a candidate hasn't
yet been decided for the week. For each week, AKC is free to propose
candidates from within the long list below, or even some other
candidate, by the Tuesday before the deadline. Otherwise Vipul might
put in his own candidate by the end of Tuesday and AKC needs to finish
that.

At the end of each Sunday, AKC should have completed a total of at
least (number of weeks so far - 4) bounties. The "-4" is to account
for the fact that AKC expected January off. The "number of weeks so
far" is measured starting January 4, i.e., the end of January 10 marks
the end of the first week.

AKC can do multiple bounties a week, thereby building a surplus of
bounties completed, allowing him to take more time off later in the
year.

* Start by January 8, finish by January 10: Timeline of online food delivery
* Start by January 15, finish by January 17: Timeline of Amazon.com
* Start by January 22, finish by January 24: Timeline of Microsoft
* Start by January 29, finish by January 31 (delayed): Timeline of Intel
* Start by February 5, finish by February 7 (delayed): CrunchFund
* Start by February 12, finish by February 14 (delayed): Garry Tan
* Start by February 19, finish by February 21 (on-track): M. G. Siegler
* Start by February 26, finish by February 28 (on-track): Paige Craig
* Start by February 29, finish by March 6 (on-track): Scott Stanford (investor)
* Start by March 7, finish by March 13: Initialized Capital
* Start by March 14, finish by March 20: Data Collective
* Start by March 21, finish by March 27: Matthew Emerton
* Start by April 1, finish by April 3: Uri Simonsohn
* Start by April 8, finish by April 10: Thomas C. Leonard
* Finish by April 17: Timeline of Instagram
* Start by April 22, finish by April 24: Timeline of LinkedIn
* Start by April 29, end by May 1: Timeline of Dropbox

(more weeks, months to be added).

== Completed pages ==

Total so far: $1170 (one of the items requires some additional work, dock $10 if the additional work is not done)

* Timeline of online food delivery: $55 ($50 original + $5 for adding more stuff)
* Timeline of Amazon.com: $250
* Timeline of Microsoft: $125
* Timeline of Intel: $150
* CrunchFund: $50
* Garry Tan: $50
* M. G. Siegler: $50
* Paige Craig: $50
* Scott Stanford (investor): $50
* Initialized Capital: $50
* Data Collective: $50
* Matthew Emerton: $15
* Uri Simonsohn: $25
* Thomas C. Leonard: $25
* Timeline of Instagram: $100
* Timeline of LinkedIn (awaiting the addition of a few more items): $75

== Specific technologies ==

* Facebook Live: Proposed bounty amount: $150 for a high-quality page completed by May 1. Bounty amount may reduce if the page is not completed by then. Get some initial references from the events related to live-streaming of Facebook videos in the timeline of Facebook, from August 2015 and January - March 2016, and then F8 conference.

== Timeline pages ==

In general, for timeline pages, we expect about 1-5% of the pageviews
that we see for the corresponding page whose timeline page it is.

=== Technology ===

* Timeline of WhatsApp: The WhatsApp page gets about 110K views a month, so we should expect 1000-5000 pageviews a month. Proposed bounty amount: $120

* Timeline of Xiaomi: The Xiaomi page gets 40K views a month, so we should expect 400-2000 pageviews per month.  Proposed bounty amount: $75

* Timeline of Dropbox: The Dropbox page gets 35K views a month, so we should expect 350-1750 pageviews per month. Proposed bounty amount: $75

* Timeline of Amazon Web Services: The Amazon Web Services page gets about 40K views a month, so we should expect 400-2000 pageviews per month. Proposed bounty amount: $60

* Timeline of Lyft: The Lyft page gets about 16K views a month, so we should expect 150 pageviews a month. Proposed bounty amount: $40

=== Clothing retail ===

In addition to bounties below, extra $25 bounty for first clothing
retail page, as a reward for expanding your capability set.

* Timeline of Nordstrom: Nordstrom gets about 18K a month. Proposed bounty: $50

* Timeline of Forever 21: Forever 21 gets about 12K a month. Proposed bounty: $40

* Timeline of Saks Fifth Avenue: Saks Fifth Avenue gets about 10K a month.  Proposed bounty: $35

== Venture capital and angel investment firms and people ==

* Coatue Management: $35

* Maverick Capital: $35

== Other concepts ==

* Newsjacking (the concept, not just the book by that name): $35. It's been deleted before, so be very careful to create something that will survive deletion. If it gets deleted in 30 days you don't make the money.

== Books ==

* The Entrepreneurial State: $30 for a decent job that references reviews at Mises Daily, EconLog, and the ones found at https://artir.wordpress.com/series-de-articulos/ (e.g., https://artir.wordpress.com/2015/08/21/mazzucato-and-the-iphone-ii-the-myth-of-the-entrepreneurial-state/), plus a decent discussion of impact.
