{{about|the former INS Commissioner and Prop. 187 co-author|other people named Alan Nelson|Alan Nelson}}
{{Infobox Officeholder
|name = Alan C. Nelson
|order1 = 12th [[Immigration and Naturalization Service|Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service]]<ref name=cad>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/history-and-genealogy/our-history/commissioners-and-directors|title = Commissioners and Directors|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = October 24, 2016}}</ref><ref name=uscis-bio/>
|term_start1 = February 22, 1982
|term_end1 = June 16, 1989<ref name=uscis-bio/>
|predecessor1 = [[Leonel J. Castillo]]
|successor1 = [[Gene McNary]]
|birth_place = [[Oakland, California]]
|alma_mater = [[University of California, Berkeley]]
}}
'''Alan C. Nelson''' (1933 to January 29, 1997) was a former Commissioner of the [[Immigration and Naturalization Services]] (INS) (February 22, 1982 to June 16, 1989) under the administration of then United States President [[Ronald Reagan]] and co-author of the original proposal behind [[California Proposition 187]] (passed November 1994).<ref name=uscis-bio>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/history-and-genealogy/our-history-8|title = Alan C. Nelson: Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization Service, February 22, 1982 - June 16, 1989|date = February 4, 2016|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]}}</ref><ref name=nyt-obit>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1997/02/06/us/alan-c-nelson-63-who-led-immigration-overhauls-for-us-and-california.html|title = Alan C. Nelson, 63, Who Led Immigration Overhauls for U.S. and California|last = Thomas Jr.|first = Robert McG.|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''|date = February 6, 1997|accessdate = October 24, 2016}}</ref><ref name=lat-obit>{{cite web|url = http://articles.latimes.com/1997-02-05/news/mn-25785_1_alan-nelson|title = Alan Nelson; Co-Author of Prop. 187|date = February 5, 1997|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = ''[[Los Angeles Times]]''}}</ref>

== Early life and education ==

Nelson was born in [[Oakland, California]].<ref name=lat-obit/> Nelson obtained an undergraduate degree in business administration from the [[University of California, Berkeley]], and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley Law School in 1958.<ref name=lat-obit/><ref name=uscis-bio/>

== Career ==

=== Before 1981 ===

Before September 1981, Nelson had worked in both the California state government and the private sector.<ref name=nyt-nomination>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1981/11/18/us/reagan-to-choose-californian-to-run-immigration-service.html|title = Reagan to Choose Californian to Run Immigration Service|date = November 18, 1981|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref><ref name=uscis-bio/>

* 1958 to 1964: Attorney at the law firm of Rogers, Clark & Jordan<ref name=uscis-bio/>
* 1964 to 1969: Deputy District Attorney for [[Alameda County, California]].<ref name=uscis-bio/> His co-workers here included [[Edwin Meese]], who would later become a counselor to President Ronald Regan<ref name=nyt-nomination/><ref name=nyt-obit/><ref name=nyt-oblique-attack/>
* 1969 to 1972: Assistant director of the [[California Department of Human Resources]]<ref name=uscis-bio/><ref name=nyt-nomination/>
* 1972 to 1975: Director of the [[California Department of Rehabilitation]] ([[California Department of Rehabilitation#Alan C. Nelson (1972-1975)|section]])<ref name=uscis-bio/><ref name=nyt-nomination/>
* 1976 to 1981: Lawyer with the [[Pacific Bell|Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company]]<ref name=uscis-bio/><ref name=nyt-nomination/>

Nelson's years in the California state government were under the [[governorship of Ronald Reagan]], who would later nominate Nelson for the position of INS Commissioner. Nelson played an important part in Reagan's welfare reform efforts. He also served as Chairman of the California Governor's Committee for Employment of the Handicapped. He received numerous awards from various public and private organizations for his role in working with the handicapped in California.<ref name=uscis-bio/>

=== September 1981 to February 1982: Transition from Deputy Commissioner to Commissioner of the INS ===

On September 23, 1981,<ref name=uscis-bio/> Nelson assumed the position of Deputy Commissioner of the [[Immigration and Naturalization Services]] (INS), to which he was appointed by then [[United States Attorney General]] [[William French Smith]].<ref name=nyt-nomination/> At the time, INS had not had an appointed Commissioner since [[Leonel J. Castillo]]'s resignation in September 1979, and it had been run under Acting Commissioner [[David W. Crosland]] and later [[Doris Meissner]].<ref name=nyt-nomination/>

Reagan's first nominee for INS Commissioner had been [[Norman Braman]], but Braman withdrew his nomination on November 12, 1981 citing his desire to spend more time on his automobile business in [[Florida]].<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1981/11/13/us/immigration-post-loses-its-nominee.html|title = Immigration Post Loses Its Nominee|date = November 13, 1981|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''|last = Pear|first = Robert}}</ref> On November 17, 1981, Reagan announced the nomination of Nelson for the position of INS Commissioner. The plan was for Meissner, who was Acting Commissioner at the time, to change to the role of Deputy Commissioner once Nelson was appointed.<ref name=nyt-nomination/> Reagan's choice of Nelson was welcomed by Michael G. Harpold, head of the National Immigration and Naturalization Service Council, the union representing INS workers. Harpold noted that the nominee's close relationship with the [[White House]] (and specifically with Edwin Meese) would elevate the status of INS as an organization.<ref name=nyt-nomination/>

Nelson's appointment as INS Commissioner was confirmed by unanimous consent of the United States Senate on February 8, 1982, and he assumed the office on February 22, 1982.<ref name=uscis-bio/> Meissner moved to the role of Executive Associate Commissioner.<ref name=meissner-mpi-bio>{{cite web|url = http://www.migrationpolicy.org/about/staff/doris-meissner|title = Doris Meissner. Senior Fellow and Director, U.S. Immigration Policy Program|publisher = [[Migration Policy Institute]]|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref>

=== February 1982 to June 1989: Work as INS Commissioner ===

Nelson 's tenure at the INS was marked by significant changes to the organization. In 1983, the INS under Nelson began working with the [[United States Catholic Conference]] on amnesty, with the Catholic Conference seeking to play the role of guiding aliens in applying for amnesty and representing them as ''de facto'' lawyers.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1983/05/21/us/us-and-a-catholic-group-set-alien-amnesty-program.html|title = U.S. and a Catholic Group Set Alien Amnesty Program|last = Pear|first = Robert|date = May 21, 1983|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref> 

The amnesty program was finally passed as part of the [[Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986]], that additionally imposed employer sanctions and enhanced border security. The INS under Nelson implemented these provisions. As part of this, Nelson opened more than 100 new field offices to process amnesty requests, beefed up the [[United States Border Patrol]], and began work on the [[Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements]] (SAVE) program intended to help government agencies deny benefits to aliens who were not eligible for them.<ref name=nyt-obit/> Nelson also announed in October 1987, and subsequently implemented, the INS' "Family Fairness" executive action.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://docs.house.gov/meetings/JU/JU00/20150225/103010/HHRG-114-JU00-20150225-SD003.pdf|title = Statement of the American Immigration Council. Hearing on "The Uncostitutionality of Obama's Executive Action on Immigration"|date = February 25, 2015|accessdate = October 24, 2016}}</ref>

Under Nelson's leadership, the agency grew by $650 million to more than $1 billion and the staff has swelled by 6,000 to a total of about 17,500.<ref name=nyt-oblique-attack/>

In 1989, the [[United States Department of Justice]], under [[United States Attorney General]] [[Dick Thornburgh]] (who had taken office in 1988 under President Reagan and continued in office under te new President [[George H. W. Bush]]), conducted an audit of the INS. Aides to Thornburgh told the ''New York Times'' in March 1989 that Thornburgh was eager to replace Nelson and bring the INS more firmly under his own control.<ref name=nyt-oblique-attack>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1989/03/14/us/washington-talk-immigration-naturalization-service-s-chief-tilts-against-oblique.html|title = WASHINGTON TALK: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION; Service's Chief Tilts Against an 'Oblique' Attack on His Policies|last = Berke|first = Richard|date = March 14, 1989|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref> The audit revealed a range of alleged problems around agency mismanagement, including 23,000 citizenship certificates lost by the regional agency in Miami (officials claimed all but 5% of the lost certificates were found), $1500 spent on an oil portrait of Nelson, and unclear accounting, management, and administrative practices. The audit also noted a growing backlog in cases awaiting decisions.<ref name=lat-fired>{{cite web|url = http://articles.latimes.com/1989-06-26/news/mn-3253_1_justice-department-justice-dept-alan-c-nelson|title = INS Chief Resigns; Under Fire in Justice Dept. Audit|publisher = [[Associated Press]]|date = June 26, 1989|accessdate = October 24, 2016}}</ref>

Nelson was fired from his post,<ref name=lat-fired/> with his last day as INS Commissioner on June 16, 1989.<ref name=uscis-bio/> Deputy INS Commissioner [[James L. Buck]] was named acting head of the service, and [[Gene McNary]] was rumored to be the next nominee for the role.<ref name=lat-fired/> Nelson continued on at the INS in a Consultant role for a few more months, to help with a successful transition to his successor.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://articles.latimes.com/1989-06-30/news/mn-2863_1_alan-c-nelson-gene-mcnary-new-commissioner|title = Ousted Chief of INS to Stay On as Consultant|date = June 30, 1989|accessdate = October 24, 2016|publisher = [[Associated Press]]}}</ref> McNary assumed the office of INS Commissioner on October 26, 1989.<ref name=uscis-bio-mcnary>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/history-and-genealogy/our-history-6|title = Gene McNary: Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, October 26, 1989 - January 20, 1993|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|date = February 4, 2016|accessdate = October 24, 2016}}</ref>

== Political activism ==

After finishing his work at the INS, Nelson resumed private law practice in California. Amidst growing concern in California about illegal immigration from Asia and Latin America, he worked with Harold W. Ezell to come up with a proposal to bar illegal immigrants from receiving an array of public benefits, from education to health care. This proposal went on the California ballot as [[California Proposition 187]] in November 1994, and passed comfortably.<ref name=nyt-obit/> However, some of the provisions were challenged and got tied up in the courts later.<ref name=nyt-obit/><ref name=lat-obit/>

== Death ==

Nelson died on January 29, 1997 in [[Sacramento, California]].<ref name=nyt-obit/><ref name=lat-obit/> At the time of his death, Nelson had been married to JoAnn Wallen Nelson for 37 years. The couple had three daughters, Kristy Nelson Leffers, Kathy Turner and Karin Nelson, and one granddaughter.<ref name=lat-obit/><ref name=nyt-obit/>

== References ==

{{reflist}}

[[Category: United States Department of Justice officials]]
