Richmond -> San Francisco/Millbrae

Mornings:

== 8:42 train ==

Typical train length: 8 cars. Crowdedness in last car notably less if a 9-car or 10-car train gets run at this time. 

Bike advisory: Possible to use a bike on last car if you get on early, but generally not advisable due to potential for crush load by the time people reach West Oakland. Very hard to enter with bikes in downtown Oakland or West Oakalnd.

* 8:42: Richmond. Seating space in last car.

* 8:46: El Cerritor Del Norte. Seating space in last car.

* 8:49: El Cerrito Plaza. Possible tipping point for last car.

* 8:53: North Berkeley. Most probable tipping point for last car.

* 8:55: Berkeley. A few people get off, so possible to snag a seat if standing from North Berkeley. However, seating space is fully used by this point.

* 8:57: Ashby. Seating space fully used.

...

* 9:17: Embarcadero. People start getting off. Still more load than seating space. However, many people prefer to continue standing since they expect to get off at Montgomery. Time to snag a seat.

* 9:19: Montgomery. More people get off. Load now approximately equals seating space.

* 9:20: Powell. More people get off. Load now comfortably less than seating space. Might even be able to get an empty pair of seats.

* 9:22: Civic Center. More people get off. Less than 50% seating space now in use.

* 9:24: 16th Street/Mission. More people get off. Less than 40% seating space now in use.

== 8:57 train ==

Typical train length: 9 cars. Train can get considerably more crowded if an 8-car train is run, with crowding particularly heavy in the last car (primarily because of bunching from people used to taking the 8th or 9th car). If 8-car train used here, better to get in the 7th (penultimate) car.

Another factor that might drive crowdedness in last car is incorrect stopping position of the train at a high-load station (for instance, stopping at Berkeley with an extra car space at the back rather than the front). If you see this, it is better to get in the penultimate car than the last car.

Bike advisory: Generally possible to load bikes on any station.

* 8:57: Richmond. Seating space in last car.

* 9:01: El Cerrito Del Norte. Seating space in last car.

* 9:04: El Cerrito Plaza. Seating space in last car.

* 9:08: North Berkeley. Seating space in last car.

* 9:10: Downtown Berkeley. Seating space in last car, but possible tipping point if high overall crowdedness.

* 9:12: Ashby. Possible tipping point if higher-than-average crowdedness. First few entrants in last car generally able to snag seats.

* 9:16: MacArthur. Most likely tipping point.

...

