#* '''Stations on the Pittsburg/Bay Point Line''': The time taken to Embarcadero depends on the starting station, ranging from 21 minutes (if you start at Rockridge) to 55 minutes (if you start at the Pittsburg/Bay Point end of line). Outside of rush hours in the morning and evening, frequency is once every 15 minutes. There is additional morning and evening rush hour service for parts on this line, as discussed next.

#* '''Additional morning rush hour lines''': There are additional morning rush hour lines that are truncated versions of the Pittsburg/Bay-Point-San Francisco International Airport line. These additional lines have various combinations of starting and ending stations. The East Bay stations other than Pittsburg/Bay Point are North Concord (the penultimate station on the line) and Pleasant Hill/Contra Costa County (separated from North Concord by Concord Station). The two possible ending stations on the other side, other than San Francisco International Airport are Montgomery and Daly City. While returning, the trains from Montgomery to Pleasant Hill run express between MacArthur and Pleasant Hill. The additional service runs roughly between 6 AM and 9 AM, reaching peak frequency between 7 AM and 8 AM, when the combined frequency reaches 5 minutes.

#* '''Additional evening rush hour lines''': There are additional morning rush hour lines that are truncated versions of the Pittsburg/Bay-Point-San Francisco International Airport line. These additional lines have various combinations of starting and ending stations. The East Bay end stations other than Pittsburg/Bay Point are North Concord (the penultimate station on the line) and Pleasant Hill/Contra Costa County (separated from North Concord by Concord Station). The two possible ending stations on the other side, other than San Francisco International Airport are 24th Street/Mission and Daly City. The additional service runs from approximately 3:30 to 6:30 PM, reaching a peak combined frequency of once every 5 minutes between 5 PM and 6 PM.