{{homotopy-invariant topospace property}}

==Definition==

=== Equivalent definitions in tabular format ===

A nonempty [[topological space]] is said to be '''contractible''' if it satisfies the following equivalent conditions. The [[empty space]] is generally excluded from consideration when considering the question of contractibility.

{| class="sortable" border="1"
! No. !! Shorthand !! A topological space is termed contractible if ... !! A topological space <math>X</math> is termed contractible if ...
|-
| 1 || homotopy-equivalent to a point || there is a [[homotopy equivalence of topological spaces]] between the topological space and a [[one-point space]]. || There exist [[continuous map]]s <math>f: X \to \{ * \}</math> and <math>g: \{ * \} \to X</math> such that <math>f \circ g</math> is homotopic to the identity map on <math>\{ * \}</math> and <math>g \circ f</math> is homotopic to the identity map on <math>X</math>. Here, <math>\{ * \}</math> is a one-point space. Also, note that the condition on <math>f \circ g</math> is tautological, and the map <math>f</math> is already uniquely determined, so all the action occurs in the definition of <math>g</math> and the homotopy between <math>g \circ f</math> and the identity map on <math>X</math>.
|-
| 2 || homotopy-equivalent to a point (arbitrary map) || ''any'' pair of maps between the space and a one-point space define a homotopy equivalence of topological spaces. || For ''any'' continuous map <math>f: X \to \{ * \}</math> and <math>g: \{ * \} \to X</math>, <math>f \circ g</math> is homotopic to the identity map on <math>\{ * \}</math> and <math>g \circ f</math> is homotopic to the identity map on <math>X</math>. Here, <math>\{ * \}</math> is a one-point space. Also, note that the condition on <math>f \circ g</math> is tautological, and the map <math>f</math> is already uniquely determined, so all the action occurs in the definition of <math>g</math> and the homotopy between <math>g \circ f</math> and the identity map on <math>X</math>.
|-
| 3 || admits a contracting homotopy || there is a point in the space to which there is a [[contracting homotopy]]. || there exists a point <math>x_0 \in X</math> and a contracting homotopy that contracts <math>X</math> to <math>x_0</math>. Explicitly, there exists a continuous map <math>F: X \times [0,1] \to X</math> such that <math>F(x,0) = x</math> for all <math>x</math>, and <math>F(x,1) = x_0</math> for all <math>x</math>. Note that we do ''not'' assume or require that <math>F(x_0,a) = x_0</math> for all <math>a \in [0,1]</math>.
|-
| 4 || admits a contracting homotopy (arbitrary point) || the space admits a [[contracting homotopy]] to ''any'' point in it. || for ''any'' point <math>x_1 \in X</math>, there is a contracting homotopy that contracts <math>X</math> to <math>x_1</math>.
|-
| 5 || unique homotopy class of maps to it || for any other topological space, there is a unique homotopy class of maps from the other space to it. || for any topological space <math>Y</math>, and any two continuous maps <math>h_1, h_2: Y \to X</math>, <math>h_1</math> and <math>h_2</math> are homotopic. In particular, any map from a topological space to it is nullhomotopic.
|-
| 6 || retract of cone space || it is a [[retract]] of its [[cone space]]. || the inclusion <math>\iota: X \to CX</math> in the cone space <math>CX</math> (as the base) has a one-sided inverse, <math>j: CX \to X</math>, i.e., <math>j</math> is a continuous map such that <math>j \circ \iota</math> is the identity map on <math>X</math>.
|}

==Metaproperties==

{| class="sortable" border="1"
! Metaproperty name !! Satisfied? !! Proof !! Statement with symbols
|-
| [[satisfies metaproperty::product-closed property of topological spaces]] || Yes || [[contractibility is product-closed]] || If <math>X_i, i \in I</math> form a (finite or infinite) collection of contractible spaces, then the product of the <math>X_i</math>s, equipped with the [[product topology]], is also contractible.<br>In particular, if <math>X_1, X_2</math> are contractible, then <math>X_1 \times X_2</math> is also contractible.
|-
| [[satisfies metaproperty::retract-hereditary property of topological spaces]] || Yes || [[contractibility is retract-hereditary]] || If <math>A \subseteq X</math> and <math>f:X \to A</math> is a continuous [[retraction]], and <math>X</math> is contractible, then <math>A</math> is contractible.
|-
| [[satisfies metaproperty::suspension-closed property of topological spaces]] || Yes || [[contractibility is suspension-closed]] || The [[suspension]] of a contractible space is contractible.
|-
| [[dissatisfies metaproperty::closure-preserved property of topological spaces]] || No || [[contractibility is not closure-preserved]] || It is possible to have a topological space <math>X</math> and a subset <math>A</math> of <math>X</math> such that <math>A</math> is contractible in the [[subspace topology]], but the [[closure]] <math>\overline{A}</math> is not.
|-
| [[dissatisfies metaproperty::connected union-closed property of topological spaces]] || No || [[contractibility is not connected union-closed]] || It is possible to have a topological space <math>X</math> expressible as a union of subsets <math>A,B</math>, both contractible in their subspace topology, with <math>A \cap B</math> nonempty, but <math>X</math> itself not contractible.
|}

== Examples ==

=== Extreme and basic examples ===

* The [[one-point space]] is contractible.
* Any [[Euclidean space]] is contractible.
* The closed unit disk in any dimension is contractible.
* [[Compact manifold]]s in dimension one or more, such as the [[circle]], are not contractible.

=== Intuition behind examples ===

Contractibility is, fundamentally, a ''global'' property of topological spaces. It is not possible to examine a small part of the space and conclude that it is contractible, nor does examining a small part of the space allow us to rule ''out'' the possibiilty that it is contractible. For the intuition behind the former, note that we can attach non-contractible pieces (like [[circle]]s) far off from the part of the space we are looking at. For the intuition behind the latter claim, note that we can embed ''any'' topological space as a closed subspace of a [[contractible space]], namely, its [[cone space]].

For this reason, when looking for examples or counterexamples, we need to focus on the global structure.

=== Examples from topological construction ===

One thing to keep in mind is that since the definition of contractibility invokes the closed unit interval, it is likely that any effort to construct contractible spaces will invariably involve dealing with the real numbers. The most topologically general way of constructing a contractible space is as the [[cone space]] of an arbitrary topological space. One way of thinking of this cone space is as a literal cone that fills in between the space and a point. Up until the very tip of the cone, the cross-sections look homeomorphic to the topological space.

=== Examples from geometry ===

A [[topologically star-like space]] is a classic example of a contractible space. A topological space is termed topologically star-like if it is homeomorphic to a star-like subset of Euclidean space. A star-like subset of Euclidean space is a subset for which there exists a point in it such that for every other point in it, the line segment joining the points is completely inside the space.

A topologically star-like space is contractible, and can in fact be contracted to any point relative to which it is a star through a straight-line homotopy, i.e., moving each point toward the center in a straight line. The contracting homotopy fixes the center, and therefore, the space is in fact a [[SDR-contractible space]].

Note that, if also compact, a topologically star-like space is homeomorphic to the cone space of its boundary. Otherwise, the space is still ''almost'' a cone space: it is a subspace of the cone space that contains the full complement of the base and an arbitrary subset of the base. Nonetheless, it is important to note that the condition of being star-like also carries various geometric implications (in particular, from being a [[sub-Euclidean space]]) that are not satisfied for arbitrary cone spaces.

A [[topologically convex space]] is a (non-empty) space that is homeomorphic to a [[convex subset of Euclidean space]]. Any topologically convex space is topologically star-like, and ''any'' point can be taken as the center. An example of a topologically star-like space that is not topologically convex is a [[pair of intersecting lines]].

It is possible to construct spaces that are not topologically star-like, but still contractible. For any, any geometric realization of a tree is contractible, but if the tree has more than one point with degree greater than two, it is not topologically star-like. As a related example, a set of parallel lines combined with one line that intersects all of them form a contractible space that is not topologically star-like.

==Relation with other properties==

=== Incomparable properties ===

Contractibility is incomparable with most of the interesting separation and compactness properties. 

'''Broad argument for why contractibility cannot imply any meaningful separation or compactness property''': The [[cone space]] over ''any'' topological space is contractible. In particular, since any topological space arises as a closed subspace of its cone space (namely, the "base" of the space), every topological space arises as a closed subspace of a contractible space. Therefore, contractible cannot imply any nontrivial property that is [[subspace-hereditary property of topological spaces|subspace-hereditary]] or even [[weakly hereditary property of topological spaces|weakly hereditary]] (inherited by closed subsets).

'''Broad argument for why meaningful separation or compactness properties cannot imply contractibility''': Most meaningful separation and compactness properties are satisfied by all [[compact manifold]]s. However, compact manifolds of dimension greater than one are not contractible. The simplest counterexample is generally the [[circle]].

Some incomparable properties:

* [[T0 space]]
* [[T1 space]]
* [[Hausdorff space]]
* [[regular space]]
* [[normal space]]
* [[metrizable space]]
* [[paracompact space]]
* [[compact space]]

The property of being a contractible space is also incomparable with the property of being a [[locally contractible space]]. A contractible space need not be locally contractible. In fact, it need not even be locally connected! An example of a contractible space that is not locally contractible is the [[comb space]]. An example of a space that is locally contractible but not contractible is the [[circle]] (or, more generally, any compact manifold).

===Stronger properties===

{| class="sortable" border="1"
! Property !! Meaning !! Proof of implication !! Proof of strictness (reverse implication failure) !! Intermediate notions
|-
| [[cone space]] over some topological space || || [[cone space implies contractible]] || || 
|-
| [[Weaker than::topologically star-like space]] || || || || {{intermediate notions short|contractible space|topologically star-like space}}
|-
| [[Weaker than::topologically convex space]] || homeomorphic to a [[convex subset of Euclidean space]] || [[convex implies star-like|via star-like]] || || {{intermediate notions short|contractible space|topologically convex space}}
|-
| [[Weaker than::suddenly contractible space]] || has a [[contracting homotopy]] that is also a [[sudden homotopy]] || || ||{{intermediate notions short|contractible space|suddenly contractible space}}
|-
| [[Weaker than::SDR-contractible space]] || has a [[contracting homotopy]] that is also a [[deformation retraction]] || || || {{intermediate notions short|contractible space|SDR-contractible space}}
|}

===Weaker properties===

{| class="sortable" border="1"
! Property !! Meaning !! Proof of implication !! Proof of strictness (reverse implication failure) !! Intermediate notions
|-
| [[Stronger than::weakly contractible space]] || [[path-connected space]], all [[homotopy group]]s vanish || [[contractible implies weakly contractible]] || [[weakly contractible not implies contractible]] || {{intermediate notions short|weakly contractible space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::multiply connected space]] || [[path-connected space]], first <math>k</math> [[homotopy group]]s vanish for <math>k \ge 2</math> || || the <math>n</math>-sphere <math>S^n</math> is <math>(n-1)</math>-connected but not <math>n</math>-connected. || {{intermediate notions short|multiply connected space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::simply connected space]] || [[path-connected space]], [[fundamental group]] is [[trivial group|trivial]] || || || {{intermediate notions short|simply connected space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::path-connected space]] || there is a [[path]] between any two points || || || {{intermediate notions short|path-connected space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::connected space]] || cannot be partitioned into disjoint nonempty subsets || || || {{intermediate notions short|connected space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::acyclic space]] || homology groups over <math>\mathbb{Z}</math> all zero except zeroth homology group which is <math>\mathbb{Z}</math> || || || {{intermediate notions short|acyclic space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::rationally acyclic space]] || homology groups over <matH>\mathbb{Q}</math> all zero except zeroth homology group which is <math>\mathbb{Q}</math> || || || {{intermediate notions short|rationally acyclic space|contractible space}}
|-
| [[Stronger than::space with Euler characteristic one]] || [[Euler characteristic]] of the space is one. || ([[acyclic implies Euler charcateristic one|via acyclic]])|| [[Euler characteristic one not implies acyclic]] ||  {{intermediate notions short|space with Euler characteristic one|contractible space}}
|}

==References==

===Textbook references===

* {{booklink|Munkres}}, Page 330, Exercise 3 (definition introduced in exercise)
* {{booklink|SingerThorpe}}, Page 51 (formal definition)
* {{booklink|Rotman}}, Page 18 (formal definition)
* {{booklink|Hatcher}}, Page 4 (formal definition)
* {{booklink|Spanier}}, Page 25 (definition in paragraph)
