Random notes currently. Turn it to a WikiHow article later.

Difference between startup and established-company support operations:

* For an established company, with a product that's fully built out, customer support can be standardized around the existing features of the product. On the other hand, for a startup whose product is rapidly iterating, customer support is a valuable opportunity to influence the product roadmap and communicate upcoming features with customers.

* For a product serving a mass audience, with a mostly self-serve model, customer support can be centered around narrowly answering questions. On the other hand, when the product is targeted at fewer customers, and each deal is individually very valuable, each touchpoint is extremely valuable and provides an opportunity to both guide and understand the customer better.

== Mode of communication ==

* Email provides a good written record of everything that happened, for future reference. But it is asynchronous.

** If using email, don't use it like live chat. In particular, keep in mind that whereas a live chat chain with 100 messages looks okay, an email chain with 100 emails looks bad (in addition to taking a lot of time to load). The issue isn't just the person you are immediately communicating with, but also everybody else on the chain.

** Anticipate issues with next steps. Keep in mind, it's not enough to simply point to existing documentation that resolves the matter. Even if you think documentation resolved the matter, the fact that a customer needed to contact you means either that (a) the customer isn't reading the documentation carefully enough, which is something that could happen with next steps too!, or that (b) the customer's situation is trickier than that covered by the documentation.

** Switch threads. When key initial issues are resolved, or new, additional matters are discovered, switch to a new thread. At each new thread, consolidate what's known so far. 

* Live chat provides a written record (if saved) and can be synchronous. However, it can be quite difficult to decipher later or hand off.

What does anticipating next steps mean?

- Use the customer's question, plus other information from your onboarding flow, to get a clearer sense of where the customer is in the flow, and whether any unique challenges (in terms of fitting into the overall flow) apply to the customer.

- Understand intent.

- Think through next steps.

- Immediate next step FAIL. This would mean that the customer implements precisely the instructions that you provide in your email, and fails. This is a situation that you should try to avoid as much as possible. If it's not possible for you to be sure, then adequate disclaimers are key.

- Offer a phone call. This can be a key placater. Most customers won't take you up on it, but some who prefer more synchronous communication will. The key is that by offering, you show your willingness to work closely with the customer to resolve the issue.

- Multiple agents, understand different intentions.

-- Some people you work with are your "champions" -- they are the ones who believe in the product, stand to benefit from its use, or stand to be recognized internally at the company for using a new tool. The key goal here is to keep them excited and remembering the reasons they were interested in you -- while making sure that their expectations are reasonable and that you are meeting them.

-- Some people you work with don't really care, but you still need cooperation from them for your trial. For these people, the key is to arrange things so that you try to keep to a minimum the amount of work they need to do (Whether it's tech integration or data analysis) while still respecting their autonomy and authority. Show appreciation for their work. If it's possible to make them champions, do it, but it's often beyond the scope of your product, in which case just stick to reducing their work, interacting cheerfully, and thanking them for things.

-- Some people stand to lose (or perceive they stand to lose) from the adoption of your product. This could be because your product does a lot of what they currently do. It could be because adoption of your product would signal a shift in approach from what they prefer. If you need their active cooperation during the trial, that creates a difficult situation for you. One strategy is to try to reframe things so that they feel they are winning, or help them redefine their role using your tool to a broader one. Show appreciation for the effort they are putting into their current role, and how your product complements them.

