'''Doris Marie Meissner'''<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/> is a former Commissioner of the [[Immigration and Naturalization Services]] (INS), the agency previously responsible for immigration enforcement in the United States. She headed the INS from October 18, 1993 (nominated June 1993) to November 18, 2000, under United States President [[Bill Clinton]] and [[United States Attorney General]] [[Janet Reno]].<ref name=ins>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/history-and-genealogy/our-history-19|title = Doris Meissner. Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization Service, October 18, 1993 - November 18, 2000|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]}}</ref><ref name=nyt-ins-start>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1993/06/19/us/president-chooses-an-expert-to-halt-smuggling-of-aliens.html|title = President Chooses an Expert To Halt Smuggling of Aliens|last = Ifill|first = Gwen|date = June 19, 1993|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref><ref name=wapo-ins-end>{{cite web|url = http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/printedition/fed/f_meissner20.htm|title = Meissner Ends Embattled Tenure as Head of INS; Immigration Wave Tested Her Reshaping of Agency|last = Eggen|first = Dan|date = November 20, 2000|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = ''[[Washington Post]]''}}</ref> She is currently Senior Fellow and Director of the U.S. Immigration Policy Program at the [[Migration Policy Institute]] and has previously worked at the [[Carnegie Endowment for International Peace]].<ref name=mpi-bio>{{cite web|url = http://www.migrationpolicy.org/about/staff/doris-meissner|title = Doris Meissner. Senior Fellow and Director, U.S. Immigration Policy Program|publisher = [[Migration Policy Institute]]|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref>

== Early life and education ==

Meissner was born in [[Milwaukee]], [[Wisconsin]] on November 3, 1941 to Hertha and Fred Borst, immigrants to the United States from [[Germany]], who had arrived in the country via the [[Ellis Island]] inspection station in the 1920s.<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1993/06/20/us/woman-immigration-expert-who-takes-broad-approach-doris-marie-meissner.html|title = Woman in the News; Immigration Expert Who Takes Broad Approach -- Doris Marie Meissner|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''|last = Tolchin|first = Martin|date = June 20, 1993|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref><ref name=wapo-ins-end/> Meissner has cited her personal experience as a second-generation immigrant in a family speaking a foreign language as critical to helping her better empathize with the migrant perspective as she took on key roles in managing the United States immigration enforcement apparatus.<ref name=suffrage-book/><ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/><ref name=wapo-ins-end/> Recalling an incident where her father, who had arrived in 1927, lost his naturalization papers in a fire, and was anxious if he could get a copy, she said: "When your parents are immigrants, you grow up understanding immigration in a way that you never could from a textbook: how precious and difficult it is."<ref name=nyt-1996-tenure-review>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1996/10/27/magazine/the-worst-job-in-the-world.html?pagewanted=all|title = The Worst Job in The World?|last = Dreifus|first = Claudia|date = October 27, 1996|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref>

She earned a [[Bachelor of Arts]] degree in 1963 and a [[Master of Arts]] degrees in 1969 (the latter in [[political science]])<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/> from the [[University of Wisconsin-Madison]].<ref name=ins/><ref name=acus/><ref name=suffrage-book>{{cite web|url = https://books.google.com/books?id=Si6ZVqdOqIgC&pg=PA434&lpg=PA434&dq=%22doris+meissner%22+political+caucus&source=bl&ots=zuuNDX9ZnN&sig=Fotz076vNuyU5Y9zEgObdXQ2iu8&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjz37qEkN7NAhVFPD4KHUZyApYQ6AEILTAD#v=onepage&q=%22doris%20meissner%22%20political%20caucus&f=false|title = From Suffrage to the Senate: An Encyclopedia of American Women in ...|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref>

While still a student, she managed the political campaign of Democratic politician [[Midge Miller]], an opponent of the [[Vietnam War]]. The campaign was successful, with Miller defeating her opponent, a 20-year incumbent, in the Wisconsin statue legislature, and assuming office in 1971.<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/>

== Professional life ==

=== Before 1973 ===

Meissner began her career as Assistant Director of Student Financial Aid at the University of Winsconsin-Madison.<ref name=napa/><ref name=acus/>

With assistance from Midge Miller, whose campaign she had managed, Meissner became a founding member of the [[National Women's Political Caucus]] and its executive director in 1971.<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/><ref name=acus/><ref name=napa/> During the 1972 [[Democratic National Convention]] and [[Republican National Convention]], she and groups of volunteers worked to change party rules to mandate larger rules for women in both parties.<ref name=suffrage-book/>

=== 1973 to 1993 ===

In 1973, Meissner joined the [[U.S. Department of Justice]] as a White House Fellow and Special Assistant to the Attorney General.<ref name=mpi-bio/><ref name=ins/> She served in a number of policy posts:<ref name=ins/><ref name=suffrage-book/>

* 1975: Became Assistant Director of the [[Office of Policy and Planning]]
* 1976: Became Executive Director of the [[Cabinet Committee on Illegal Aliens]]
* 1977: Became Deputy Associate Attorney General (a post she held until 1980)

In 1981, under the Presidency of [[Ronald Reagan]], she became Acting Commissioner of the INS and then Executive Associate Commissioner, then the third-ranking post.<ref name=mpi-bio/><ref name=nyt-ins-start/><ref name=ins/>

In 1986, Meissner moved to the private sector as Senior Associate and Director of the Immigration Policy Project at the [[Carnegie Endowment for International Peace]] in [[Washington, D.C.]]<ref name=mpi-bio/><ref name=ins/>

=== Tenure as INS Commissioner (1993 to 2000) ===

In June 1993, Meissner was nominated by then United States President [[Bill Clinton]] and worked as INS Commissioner under then [[United States Attorney General]] [[Janet Reno]].<ref name=nyt-ins-start/> The nomination came at a time when there was a growing demand both for stronger but more humane immigration and border enforcement. It occurred shortly after the accident where the ''[[Golden Venture]]'', a cargo ship smuggling 286 [[undocumented immigrant]]s from [[China]] ran aground on the beach in [[New York (state)|New York]].<ref name=nyt-ins-start/>

According to the ''[[New York Times]]'', Meissner's appointment was viewed favorably becaue of her knowledge of the domain acquired through years of experience under both Democratic and Republican administrations, as well as the non-political nature of the appointment.<ref name=nyt-ins-start/> A later ''[[New York Times]]'' article reviewing her first few years in office described her mandate as "keeping open America's front door while slamming shut the back."<ref name=nyt-1996-tenure-review/>

Meissner's tenure at the INS was a critical time for the agency. Border enforcement was significantly ramped up under her watch, starting with preliminary measures like [[Operation Gatekeeper]] and [[Operation Hold the Line]].<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.cnn.com/US/9710/09/operation.gatekeeper/|title = Government claims partial victory in struggle against illegal immigration|date = October 8, 1997|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = [[CNN]]}}</ref> She oversaw the agency's workforce double to 32,000 employees, and its annual budget triple to $4.3 billion.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> She also worked on cutting down the wait time for naturalization applications from two years to nine months, and reduced the backlog from 2 million to 800,000.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/>

Many immigration advocacy groups and administration personnel praised Meissner's work. [[Frank Sharry]] of the [[National Immigration Forum]] said that she "performed admirably and impressively in an impossible job."<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> Her boss, [[Janet Reno]], the [[Attorney General]] at the time, called her "everyone's idea of the perfect public servant."<ref name=nyt-1996-tenure-review/>

The INS, and Meissner personally, came under criticism for not doing enough to control the borders, at a time when cross-border movement was higher than in any previous period. The criticism came from Texas Representative [[Lamar Smith]], chairman of the [[United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security]].<ref name=nyt-1996-tenure-review/><ref name=wapo-ins-end/><ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB919989451983570500|title = Border States, Clinton Feud On Immigration Issues, Policy|last = Valbrun|first = Marjorie|date = February 26, 1999|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = ''[[Wall Street Journal]]''}}</ref> Others who made withering criticisms of Meissner's record included [[T. J. Bonner]], president of the [[National Border Patrol Council]], and [[Dan Stein]], executive director of [[Federation for American Immigration Reform]]. Specific issues that created controversy included plans to release 1500 nonviolent criminals to reduce crowding in detention centers as well as a naturalization drive that mistakenly allowed hundreds of criminals to become citizens due to flawed background checks.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> A [[U.S. Department of Justice]] report lambasted the INS for a malfunctioning fingerprinting process and a computer system so antiquated that officials couldn't determine exactly how many applicants they had.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> Other one-off issues, such as the return of [[Elián González]] to [[Cuba]]<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> and INS' efforts to deport Henry Kiareldeen based on secret evidence (that were ultimately withdrawn), also put the INS and Meissner in the limelight.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/1999/10/26/opinion/abroad-at-home-the-story-of-k.html|title = Abroad at Home; The Story of K|date = October 26, 1999|accessdate = July 5, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref>

=== Return to the Carnegie Endowment and subsequent work at the Migration Policy Institute ===

After finishing her tenure at the INS, Meissner' returned to work at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, on the Immigration Policy Project. In July 2001, [[Kathleen Newland]] and Demetrios G. Papademetriou created the [[Migration Policy Institute]] from the International Migration Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment,<ref name=iom>{{cite web|url=http://www.iom.int/files/live/sites/iom/files/What-We-Do/idm/workshops/IDM-2013-Diaspora-Ministerial-Conference/bios_Kathleen-Newland.html|title = Kathleen Newland|publisher = [[International Organization for Migration]]|accessdate = May 28, 2014}}</ref><ref name=about-mpi>{{cite web|url = http://www.migrationpolicy.org/about/mission|title = Mission|publisher = [[Migration Policy Institute]]|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref> and Meissner's Immigration Policy Project subsequently moved to MPI.<ref name=mpi-bio/> Meissner currently holds the title of Senior Fellow and Director of the U.S. Immigration Policy Program.<ref name=mpi-bio/>

=== Other affiliations and honors ===

Meissner is currently serving or has previously served on a number of distinguished boards and panels.<ref name=ins/><ref name=mpi-bio/> These include the [[National Academy of Public Administration]] (Senior Fellow, 2003 to present)<ref name=napa>{{cite web|url = http://www.napawash.org/fellows/fellows-biographies/fellows-last-names-k-o/807-doris-meissner.html|title =  Doris Meissner|publisher = National Academy of Public Administration|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref> and the Administrative Conference of the United States.<ref name=acus>{{cite web|url = https://www.acus.gov/contacts/doris-meissner|title = Doris Meissner|publisher = Administrative Conference of the United States|accessdate = July 5, 2016}}</ref>

Among the honors she has received are the White House Fellowship mentioned above, a Department of Justice Special Commendation Award, and listings in Who's Who in America and Outstanding Young Women of America.<ref name=ins/>

==Personal life==

Meissner was married to Charles F. Meissner, who worked as an economist at the [[World Bank]]<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/> and later served as assistant commerce secretary under the administration of [[Bill Clinton]].<ref name=wapo-ins-end/> The two had met while undergraduates at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.<ref name=nyt-ins-start-profile/> Charles died in a plane crash in [[Croatia]], along with Commerce Secretary [[Ronald H. Brown]] and 31 others.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/><ref name=nyt-1996-tenure-review/> The couple has two grown children.<ref name=wapo-ins-end/>

== See also ==

* [[Kathleen Newland]], co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute
* [[United States Secretary of Homeland Security]], the position that would (approximately) replace that of INS Commissioner, after the restructuring of the INS as sub-agencies of the newly created [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]. The first few Secretaries of Homeland Security were [[Tom Ridge]], [[Michael Chertoff]], [[Janet Napolitano]], and [[Jeh Johnson]]

==References==

{{reflist|30em}}

[[Category: University of Wisconsin-Madison alumni]]
