{{Infobox person
| image       = Dustin Moskovitz Headshot.jpg
| image_size  = 200px
| name        = Dustin Moskovitz
| birth_date  = {{Birth date and age|1984|5|22|mf=yes}}<ref name="dob">{{cite news |url=http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2011/mar/09/forbes-rich-list-facebook-six |title=Forbes rich list: Facebook six stake their claims |work=The Guardian |location=UK |first=Ed |last=Pilkington |date=March 10, 2011 |accessdate=March 30, 2011}}</ref>
| birth_place = [[Gainesville, Florida]], U.S.
| known_for   = Co-founder of Facebook (2004); world's youngest self-made billionaire (2012)
| nationality = [[United States|American]]
|alma_mater      = [[Harvard University]]
| net_worth   = {{increase}} US$10.8 billion (August 2016)<ref>{{cite web | url=http://www.forbes.com/profile/dustin-moskovitz/ | title=Billionaires: #202 Dustin Moskovitz | publisher=[[Forbes]] | accessdate=March 4, 2014}}</ref>
}}

'''Dustin Moskovitz''' (born May 22, 1984) is an American [[Internet entrepreneur]] who co-founded the website [[Facebook]] along with [[Mark Zuckerberg]], [[Eduardo Saverin]], [[Andrew McCollum]] and [[Chris Hughes]].<ref name=timeline>{{cite web|accessdate=2008-10-03|url=http://www.new.facebook.com/press/info.php?timeline=|title=Company Timeline|publisher=Facebook}}</ref> In 2008, he left Facebook to co-found [[Asana (web application)|Asana]]<ref name="Who is the CEO of Asana?">Rosenstein, Justin.[http://www.quora.com/Who-is-the-CEO-of-Asana "Reply on Quora to: Who is the CEO of Asana?"], [[Quora]], February 8, 2011. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref>  with [[Justin Rosenstein]]. In March 2011, [[Forbes]] reported Moskovitz to be the youngest self-made billionaire in history, on the basis of his 2.34% share in Facebook.<ref>{{Cite news| url =http://newsfeed.time.com/2011/03/10/forbess-youngest-billionaire-facebook-co-founder-dustin-moskovitz-edges-out-mark-zuckerberg/ |title=Forbes‘s Youngest Billionaire: Facebook Co-Founder Dustin Moskovitz Edges Out Mark Zuckerberg|author=Zoe Fox |publisher=[[TIME]] |date =March 10, 2011}}</ref>

==Background and education==
Moskovitz was born in [[Gainesville, Florida]] and grew up in [[Ocala, Florida]]. He is eight days younger than Zuckerberg.<ref name="America's Youngest Billionaires">[http://www.forbes.com/2010/10/06/americas-youngest-billionaires-business-young-billionaires.html "America's Youngest Billionaires"], [[Forbes]], 6 October 2010. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref> Moskovitz is [[Jewish]]. His father was a psychiatrist and mother a teacher and an artist.<ref>{{cite web|title=From Social Media To Killing Emails By Dustin Moskovitz|url=http://www.eyerys.com/articles/people/social-media-killing-emails-dustin-moskovitz|publisher=Eyerys|accessdate=10 February 2016}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|author=Jacob Berkman|date=December 10, 2010|title=Zuckerberg among nine new Jewish individuals and families to take the Giving Pledge|url=http://www.jta.org/2010/12/10/fundermentalist/zuckerberg-among-nine-new-jewish-individuals-and-families-to-take-the-giving-pledge|publisher=[[Jewish Telegraphic Agency]]|accessdate=19 September 2013}}</ref> He attended [[Vanguard High School]], graduating from the [[IB Diploma Program]]. Moskovitz attended [[Harvard University]] as an [[economics]] major for two years before he moved with Mark Zuckerberg to [[Palo Alto]]. He went to work full-time on Facebook.<ref name="Dustin Moskovitz: Crunchbase Profile">[http://www.crunchbase.com/person/dustin-moskovitz "Dustin Moskovitz: Crunchbase Profile"], [[Techcrunch]]. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref>

==Career==

===Facebook===
Four people, three of whom were roommates — [[Mark Zuckerberg]], [[Eduardo Saverin]], [[Chris Hughes]], and Dustin Moskovitz — founded Facebook in their Harvard University dorm room in February 2004. Originally called thefacebook.com, it was intended as an exclusive online directory of all Harvard's students to help residential students identify members of other residences.<ref name=timeline /><ref>{{cite news|title=A quiet tech boom emphasizes substance over dreams|work=The New York Times|date=2005-05-27|author=Rosen, Ellen}}</ref> In June 2004, Zuckerberg, Hughes and Moskovitz took a year off from Harvard and moved Facebook's base of operations to [[Palo Alto, California]], and hired eight employees.<ref name="Finding Friends with Facebook">[http://www.wired.com/culture/lifestyle/news/2005/07/68083 "Finding Friends with Facebook"], ''[[Wired (magazine)|Wired]]'', July 3, 2005. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref> They were later joined by [[Sean Parker]]. At Facebook, Moskovitz was the company's first chief technology officer and then vice president of engineering;<ref name="Dustin Moskovitz: Forbes Profile">[http://www.forbes.com/profile/dustin-moskovitz "Dustin Moskovitz: Forbes Profile"], September 2010. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref> he led the technical staff and oversaw the major architecture of the site, as well as being responsible for the company’s mobile strategy and development.<ref name="Dustin Moskovitz: Crunchbase Profile"/>

=== After Facebook ===
On October 3, 2008, Moskovitz announced that he was leaving Facebook to form a new company called [[Asana (web application)|Asana]] with [[Justin Rosenstein]], an engineering manager at Facebook. Moskovitz was also the biggest [[angel investor]] in the mobile photo-sharing site [[Path (company)|Path]], run by another former member of Facebook, David Morin. It was reported<ref name="Inside the DNA of the Facebook Mafia">Lacy, Sarah.[http://techcrunch.com/2011/02/13/inside-the-dna-of-the-facebook-mafia/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Techcrunch+%28TechCrunch%29 "Inside the DNA of the Facebook Mafia"], [[Techcrunch]], February 13, 2011. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref> that Moskovitz's advice was important in persuading Morin to reject a $100 million offer for the company from [[Google]], made in February 2011.<ref name="Google Tried To Buy Path For $100+ Million. Path Said No.">Arrington, Mike. [http://techcrunch.com/2011/02/02/google-tried-to-buy-path-for-100-million-path-said-no "Google Tried To Buy ''Path'' For $100+ Million. Path Said No."], ''[[Techcrunch]]'', February 2, 2011. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref>

==Philanthropy==

Moskovitz co-founded the philanthropic organization [[Good Ventures]] with his girlfriend (and now wife) Cari Tuna in 2011.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.facebook.com/notes/good-ventures/our-vision-mission-initial-approach-to-giving/461742803854617| title = Our vision, mission & initial approach|last = Tuna|first = Cari}}</ref> In June 2012, Good Ventures announced a close partnership with charity evaluator [[GiveWell]].<ref>{{cite web|url=http://blog.givewell.org/2012/06/28/givewell-and-good-ventures/|title = GiveWell and Good Ventures|author = Holden|date = 2012-06-28}}</ref> [[Good Ventures]] has donated approximately $100 million from 2011 onward to GiveWell top charities [[Against Malaria Foundation]], [[GiveDirectly]], [[Schistosomiasis Control Initiative]], and [[Deworm the World Initiative]], as well as standout charities (see [[Good Ventures#Grants to GiveWell-recommended charities]] for more). 

The joint collaboration with GiveWell led to a spinoff called the [[Open Philanthropy Project]], whose goal is to figure out the best possible way to use large sums of money (starting with Moskovitz's multi-billion-dollar fortune) to do the most good.<ref name="vox_matthews">{{cite web |url=http://www.vox.com/2015/4/24/8457895/givewell-open-philanthropy-charity |title=You have $8 billion. You want to do as much good as possible. What do you do? |first=Dylan |last=Matthews |date=April 24, 2015 |publisher=Vox |accessdate=March 19, 2016}}</ref><ref name="Insidephilanthropy.com_March_20_2016c">{{cite web |url=http://www.insidephilanthropy.com/home/2015/12/14/how-does-an-emerging-army-of-tech-donors-think-ask-this-guy.html |title=How Does an Emerging "Army" of Tech Donors Think? Ask This Guy |publisher=Inside Philanthropy |date=December 14, 2015 |author=David Callahan |accessdate= March 20, 2016}}</ref><ref name="bcg_pers">{{cite web |url=https://www.bcgperspectives.com/content/articles/innovation-strategy-how-tech-entrepreneurs-are-disrupting-philanthropy/ |title=bcg.perspectives - How Tech Entrepreneurs Are Disrupting Philanthropy |publisher=The Boston Consulting Group |date=February 10, 2016 |author1=Nicole Bennett |author2=Ashley Carter |author3=Romney Resney |author4=Wendy Woods  |last-author-amp=yes |accessdate= March 20, 2016}}</ref> As of 2016, the Open Philanthropy Project is in the process of becoming a separate organization,<ref>{{cite web |url=http://blog.givewell.org/2015/12/10/december-2015-open-thread/comment-page-1/#comment-934738 |first=Elie |last=Hassenfeld |title=Comment on December 2015 Open Thread}}</ref> but it has already made over $40 million in grants (see [[Open Philanthropy Project#Grants made]] for more).

Moskovitz and Tuna are also the youngest couple to sign [[Bill Gates]] and [[Warren Buffett]]’s [[The Giving Pledge|Giving Pledge]], which commits billionaires to giving away most of their wealth in the form of philanthropy.<ref>{{cite web|title= Silicon Valley Billionaire Dustin Moskovitz and Cari Tuna on the Reasoned Art of Giving|url= http://jewishbusinessnews.com/2015/01/02/silicon-valley-billionaire-dustin-moskovitz-and-cari-tuna-on-the-reasoned-art-of-giving/|date= 2015-01-02|publisher= Jewish Business News}}</ref>

== Politics ==

Moskovitz has voted for the [[Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic Party]] candidates in all elections where he has voted, but he has written: "Though we’ve voted for the Democratic nominee each of the times we’ve cast a ballot, we’ve considered ourselves independent thinkers who respect candidates and positions from both sides of the aisle."<ref name=compelled-to-act>{{cite web|url = https://medium.com/@moskov/compelled-to-act-1413930041ee#.idquozq7d|title = Compelled to Act. We’re committing $20M to help Democrats in the 2016 election|date = September 8, 2016|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[Medium (website)|Medium]]''}}</ref> Prior to their donation for the 2016 election cycle, Moskovitz and Tuna had donated roughly $10,000 over their lifetime to federal candidates, most of it to [[Sean Eldridge]], the husband of Facebook co-founder [[Chris Hughes]].<ref name=nytimes-2016-donation/>

For the [[2016 United States Presidential election]], Moskovitz announced that he and his wife are donating $20 million to support [[Hillary Clinton]], the Democratic Party nominee, arguing that the dangers of a Trump presidency are significant, and that they are making their donation despite being skeptical of allowing large donors to influence election cycles through money.<ref name="2016 Donation">{{cite web|url = http://www.cnn.com/2016/09/09/politics/facebook-cofounder-gift-democrats|title = Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz commits $20M to help beat Trump|date = September 9, 2016|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[CNN]]''}}</ref> The ''[[New York Times]]'' quoted Moskovitz's blog post on the subject: "The Republican Party, and Donald Trump in particular, is running on a zero-sum vision, stressing a false contest between their constituency and the rest of the world."<ref name=nytimes-2016-donation>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/10/us/politics/facebook-trump-dustin-moskovitz.html|title = Dustin Moskovitz, Facebook Co-Founder, Pledges $20 Million to Aid Democrats|last = Confessore|first = Nicholas|date = September 9, 2016|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref><ref name=compelled-to-act/> This makes him the 3rd largest donor in the 2016 campaigns.<ref name="2016 Donation"/>

==Personal life==

Moskovitz is married to Cari Tuna. Tuna currently works full time on [[Good Ventures]], the couple's private foundation, as well as the Open Philanthropy Project, a spinoff of a collaboration between Good Ventures and GiveWell.<ref name=wapo>{{cite web|url=http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/billionaire-couple-give-plenty-to-charity-but-they-do-quite-a-bit-of-homework/2014/12/26/19fae34c-86d6-11e4-b9b7-b8632ae73d25_story.html|title = Cari Tuna and Dustin Moskovitz: Young Silicon Valley billionaires pioneer new approach to philanthropy|author = Ariana Eunjung Cha|date = December 26, 2014|accessdate = December 29, 2014|publisher = ''[[Washington Post]]''}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.insidephilanthropy.com/tech-philanthropy/2013/9/12/meet-cari-tuna-the-woman-giving-away-dustin-moskovitzs-faceb.html|title = Meet Cari Tuna, the Woman Giving Away Dustin Moskovitz's Facebook Fortune|last = Lee|first = Vincent|date = September 12, 2013|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[Inside Philanthropy]]''}}</ref><ref name=rice-tuna>{{cite web|url = http://issarice.com/cari-tuna|title = Cari Tuna|last = Rice|first = Issa|date = June 29, 2016|accessdate = September 22, 2016}}</ref> Tuna is a former ''[[Yale Daily News]]'' writer<ref>{{cite web|url = http://yaledailynews.com/blog/author/carituna/|title = Cari Tuna|publisher = ''[[Yale Daily News]]''|accessdate = September 22, 2016}}</ref> and ''[[Wall Street Journal]]'' journalist.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://topics.wsj.com/person/T/cari-tuna/6189|title = Cari Tuna|publisher = ''[[Wall Street Journal]]''|accessdate = September 22, 2016}}</ref>

Moskovitz and Tuna attend [[Burning Man]] regularly, and Moskovitz has written about his reasons for doing so.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://medium.com/i-m-h-o/radical-inclusion-vs-radical-self-reliance-at-burning-man-b6ab7a2a8321#.rjn05pdx2|title = Radical Inclusion vs. Radical Self-Reliance at Burning Man|last = Moskovitz|First = Dustin|date = September 5, 2013|accessdate = September 22, 2016}}</ref> Moskovitz's attendance at Burning Man has been the subject of some press coverage.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/facebook/10292126/Facebooks-Dustin-Moskovitz-hugs-the-Winklevoss-twins-at-Burning-Man.html|title = Facebook's Dustin Moskovitz hugs the Winklevoss twins at Burning Man. Dustin Moskovitz of Facebook tells how met the Winklevoss twins at the Burning Man festival in Nevada. Is one of the most celebrated feud of the internet age over?|last = Allen|first = Nick|date = September 6, 2013|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[The Daily Telegraph]]''}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.businessinsider.com/when-dustin-moskovitz-of-facebook-met-the-winklevoss-twins-2013-9|title = A Strange Thing Happened The First Time Facebook's Co-Founder Met The Winklevoss Twins — They Hugged|last = Shontell|first = Alyson|date = September 5, 2013|accessdate = September 22, 2016|publisher = ''[[Business Insider]]''}}</ref>

==Media depictions==
Moskovitz is played in the film ''[[The Social Network]]'' by actor [[Joseph Mazzello]]. Responding to a question on [[Quora]], Moskovitz said that the film "emphasizes things that didn't matter (like the [[Winklevoss twins|Winklevoss brothers]], whom I've still never even met and had no part in the work we did to create the site over the past 6 years) and leaves out things that we really did (like the many other people in our lives at the time, who supported us in innumerable ways)."<ref name="What does Dustin Moskovitz think of the Facebook movie?">Moskovitz, Dustin.[http://www.quora.com/What-does-Dustin-Moskovitz-think-of-the-Facebook-movie?q=dustin+mosko "Reply on Quora to: What does Dustin Moskovitz think of the Facebook movie?"], ''[[Quora]]'', July 16, 2010. Retrieved 2011-02-15.</ref>

==External links==
{{Commons category}}
*[https://books.google.com/books?id=RRUkLhyGZVgC&pg=PA175&lpg=PA175&dq=Dustin+Moskovitz+georgia+southern&source=bl&ots=LRP1b6s9gt&sig=sI4qbmnR74uWoPVL_ciKiiMPPa0&hl=en&ei=ju66TeXzF8KWtwfHqPHkBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CC0Q6AEwBA#v=onepage&q=Dustin%20Moskovitz%20georgia%20southern&f=false "The Facebook Effect" by David Kirkpatrick, Georgia Southern University]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

{{Facebook navbox}}
{{Effective altruism}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Moskovitz, Dustin}}
[[Category:1984 births]]
[[Category:American billionaires]]
[[Category:American computer businesspeople]]
[[Category:American Jews]]
[[Category:American technology company founders]]
[[Category:Businesspeople from Florida]]
[[Category:Facebook employees]]
[[Category:Facebook people]]
[[Category:Giving Pledgers]]
[[Category:Harvard University alumni]]
[[Category:Living people]]
