# The following pieces of user data are available even without any special efforts to track demographic data. This data is directly collected by Google Analytics through its tracking beacon and does not require joining with external data about the user.
#* Language: This is read from the setting in the user's browser as the user's language of first preference. It may not be the language that the user actually speaks or considers his/her first language. Partly, it is unreliable because many users don't touch the default preferred language that comes with the browser when they install it.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2013/02/12/languages-report-google-analytics/ Languages Report in Google Analytics]</ref> Languages are specified using two- or four-letter codes.<ref>[http://searchenginewatch.com/sew/how-to/2269346/google-analytics-language-report-what-you-can-learn-about-your-visitors Google Analytics Language Report: What You Can Learn About Your Visitors]</ref><ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2010/11/15/google-analytics-language-codes/ Some Google Analytics Language Codes]</ref>
#* Location (country and city): This is inferred from the user's IP address. Google Analytics does not display actual IP addresses for privacy reasons. While generally reliable, this may not be accurate for users using a VPN, since the geographical location of the VPN may differ from the user's actual geographical location. Location data may be missing or unreliable for people using mobile browsers, and in particular for people using Opera Mini which routes all traffic through central servers.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2013/03/19/locations-report-google-analytics/ The Locations Report in Google Analytics]</ref>
#* Operating system and browser: This is inferred from the user agent string used by the browser. This is generally accurate, except in cases where the user is running an emulator or virtual machine that emulates a different browser or operating system.<ref>[https://www.petroglyphcreative.com/blog/2014/browser-os-from-analytics Who's looking at you? Browser/OS from Google Analytics]</ref>
#* Network: This is inferred from the user's IP address.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2008/12/15/network-location-google-analytics/ Using Network Location in Google Analytics]</ref>
# Demographic and interest data are collected only if you as a website owner opt in. You need to first upgrade Google Analytics to enable remarketing and advertising features,<ref>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2444872 Enable Remarketing and Advertising Reporting Features in Google Analytics]</ref> then turn on demographics and interest reports.<ref>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2819948?hl=en Enable Demographics and Interests reports]</ref>
#* Google Analytics joins user data with the following three data sources to identify users: the third-party DoubleClick cookie (DoubleClick, also known as the Google Ad Exchange, is a display advertising network owned by Google), the Android Advertising ID (for apps on Android devices), and the iOS Identifier for Advertisers (for apps on iOS devices). Of these three, the only one relevant to web activity is the DoubleClick cookie.<ref name=data-collection/>
#* You can view demographic data by going to Audience > Demographics in the Reporting tab of Google Analytics. If Google Analytics tells you that the data isn't available, follow the instructions to enable it.
#* You can view interest data by going to Audience > Interests. If Google Analytics tells you that the data isn't available, follow the instructions to enable it.
#* Make sure that your website's privacy policy (if any) reflects these changes. This is particularly important if your audience is privacy-conscious, if you are required by law to disclose the information, or if your previous privacy policy explicitly stated that third-party cooking tracking would not occur.<ref>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2700409?hl=en Policy requirements for Google Analytics Advertising Features]</ref>
# Understand precisely what the demographic and interest data on Google Analytics mean:
#* Demographic and interest data is available only for users for whom Google Analytics can join the user's Google Analytics cookie with a DoubleClick ad-tracking cookie for which the relevant information is available. The percentage can vary from 25% to 100%.
#* Demographic and interest data is not available for users who have adblockers turned on, which includes a lot of technologically sophisticated and privacy-conscious users. If this is an important segment of your audience, then the results you see could be biased. Other reasons demographic and interest data may be unavailable include: the user is on a different browser than his or her typical one, the user is using incognito or private browsing, the user has disabled or cleared cookies, or the user has disabled Javascript.
#* Demographic and interest data will be inaccurate for people who share computers. This may be relevant for spouses, siblings, children, or parents who occasionally use the primary user's device for browsing.
#* In order to protect the privacy of minors, demographic and interest data is not available for people under the age of 18.
#* As a user, you might be interested in looking at what information Google Analytics has collected about you. This might help you (anecdotally) get a feel for the accuracy of the data. If you are logged in to your Google account, you can access the information about yourself online.<ref>[https://www.google.com/settings/u/0/ads/authenticated?hl=en Control your Google ads]</ref>
# Consider segmentation using two or more dimensions.
#* You can segment using up to two dimensions in the default view, without creating a custom report. To do this, simply go to the appropriate place for the first dimension (for instance, go to Audience > Interests > Gender) to select gender as the primary dimension. Then, select the appropriate secondary dimension by clicking on the place where that may be entered and typing in the dimension (the drop-down will help you narrow your choice).
#* If you want to drill down on more than two dimensions, you will need to do so by creating a custom report. However, note that due to size limitations, the custom report may end up not displaying the data you want.
# Note that size limitations (in both directions) and how these may skew your results.
#* If the total amount of data is too large, Google Analytics may use subsampling. Subsampling means that Google Analytics will not look at all the data points but rather look at a subset and extrapolate from what it observes on that subset. Choosing a smaller date range might solve this problem. Note that this problem applies only if you have over 250,000 sessions over the date range you are considering.
#* If a particular form of segmentation results in too little data in one or more of the segments, then Google Analytics may choose not to display the information, in order to protect the privacy of individual users. Google Analytics calls this "thresholding". Choosing a larger date range might solve this problem. Also, reducing the number of dimensions along which you are drilling down can also help.<ref name=data-collection>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2954071 Demographics and Interests data collection and thresholds]</ref>
