== Role of the institution for F visas ==

To pursue studies in F status at a college, university, or vocational school, it is necessary that the institution be a participant in the [[Student and Exchange Visitor Program]] (SEVP). An institution can acquire SEVP certification by filing Form I-17 with [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]] (this is a one-time process).<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/sevis/i17|title = Overview of the SEVP certification process|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref> Note that an institution can be SEVP-certified despite not holding national or regional accreditation.<ref name=educationusa>{{cite web|url = https://educationusa.state.gov/foreign-institutions-and-governments/understanding-us-higher-education/international-student|title = International Student Visas|publisher = EducationUSA|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref> Conversely, an institution may hold national or regional accreditation but may have chosen not to obtain SEVP certification if it does not intend to admit international students in the F, J, or M status.

A large university typically has an international office that manages its participation in the SEVP, and all the DSOs work for this office. The international office manages updates to the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) record for students and issuing of new paper Form I-20s. Students who have any change to their plans (such as program end date, course load, leave of absence, return from leave of absence) must communicate these changes with their international office.

=== The special case of F visas for high school students ===

It is possible to obtain a F-1 visa to pursue studies at a secondary school (grades 9-12). As is the case with other institutions, the secondary school must be SEVP-certified. The school may be a public (government-funded) school or a private school. In the case of a public school, the student may attend for a maximum period of 12 months and must reimburse the school for the full per-capita cost of attendance. Neither of these requirements apply for students attending private schools.<ref name=high-school>{{cite web|url = International Students May Benefit from Attending High School in the United States|date = June 5, 2012|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

== Acquiring student status ==

=== Issuance of first Form I-20 ===

Once the prospective student has accepted the institution's offer of admission, the institution issues a Form I-20 to the student.<ref name=educationusa/><ref name=studyinthestates/>

Apart from biographical information about the student (including the student's name, date of birth, citizenship, etc.), there are two main pieces of information that must be entered in the student's SEVIS record and the initial Form I-20.

* Program details: The program name, start date, and end date.
* How the student intends to meet tuition and living expenses for the first year the student is in the program, or until the end date indicated on the I-20, whichever is shorter.

Each international office may follow its own rules or guidelines regarding the type of documentation it requests from the student or from other departments in order to be able to issue the I-20. The jargon used for this documentation will also vary by institution. For instance, the [[University of Chicago]] and [[University of Michigan]] uses the term "Financial Resources Statement" for the statement that students need to submit to it regarding how they will meet their expenses.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/frs|title = Qualifying for your I-20 or DS-2019|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.internationalcenter.umich.edu/immig/forms/I20-DS2019state-finance.pdf|title = Financial Resources Statement for Issuance of Form I-20 or DS-2019|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref>, while the [[University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign]] uses the term "Declaration & Certification of Finances for I-20/DS-2019 Application".<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.grad.illinois.edu/sites/default/files/pdfs/certoffinances.pdf|title = Declaration & Certification of Finances for I-20 / DS-2019 Application FOR INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS ONLY|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref>

After receiving information from the student and institution regarding the program length and end date, the international office creates the student's SEVIS record, gets a SEVIS number for the student, and issues a Form I-20. A physical copy of the form may be mailed to the student overseas. In the case that the student has a SEVIS record from previous student status, the existing SEVIS record should be transferred.<ref name=ice-dso-faq>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/sevis/f1-transfers|title = Transfers for F-1 Students|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref>

The international office may refuse to issue a Form I-20 if the student is unable to demonstrate how he or she plans to cover expenses for the first year. 

=== The student pays the SEVIS fee ===

In order to transition to student status, the prospective student must pay a one-time SEVIS fee using Form I-901.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/students/admitted|ttile = Admitted Students|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref> Note that this fee applies both to people who are not currently in the United States (and need a visa) and to those who plan to change status using [[Form I-539]].<ref name=studyinthestates-i-539>{{cite web|url = https://studyinthestates.dhs.gov/2013/07/what-is-the-form-i-539|title = What is the Form I-539?|date = June 18, 2013|accessdate = February 1, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]}}</ref>

=== For students outside the United States: the student applies for a visa and then enters the United States ===

If the student is outside the United States, then he/she must apply for a student visa (F or M). The visa interview must be scheduled for no fewer than 120 days prior to the start date indicated on the Form I-20.<ref name=uchicago-visa>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/getting-your-student-visa|title = Getting Your Student Visa|accessdate = February 9, 2016|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]}}</ref>

At the time of initial entry, the officer at the port of entry checks that the program start date is at most 30 days ahead, and that the I-20 has a valid travel signature.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/arriving-us-airport-or-port-entry|title = Arriving in the U.S. at the Airport or the Port of Entry|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref> It is also necessary that, at the time of initial entry, the school the student intends to intend matches the school on the student's visa and the student's I-20, though this is not a requirement in the future.<ref name=ice-dso-faq/> The officer at the port of entry also issues a [[Form I-94]] with expiration date indicated as "D/S" (Duration of Status), which means that the student is in authorized status in the United States until the program end date indicated on the I-20 (and can stay in the United States for up to 60 days after that).

=== For students in the United States in a different status: the student can (under some conditions) apply to change status ===

If the student is already in the United States in another status, it may be possible to change status using [[Form I-539]]. However, there are many limitations. For instance, the process generally takes 3–6 months, which can be considerably longer than traveling outside the United States and getting a new visa.<ref name=iss>{{cite web|url = https://iss.washington.edu/procedures/change-status|title = Change of Nonimmigrant Status|accessdate = February 1, 2016}}</ref>

For those who entered the United States using a [[B visa]], having an annotation on the visa saying that the entrant is a "Prospective Student" is generally a prerequisite for the Form I-539 application to be accepted.<ref name=nolo-b>{{cite web|url = http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/how-extend-your-stay-change-your-status-while-b-visa.html|title = How to Extend Your Stay or Change Your Status While on a B Visa. The steps you must take as a B visa entrant to request an extension of stay in the U.S.|last = Gasson|first = Kristina|accessdate = January 25, 2016|publisher = [[NOLO]]}}</ref><ref name=cmu>{{cite web|url = https://www.cmu.edu/oie/forstu/pdf/change-status.pdf|title = Change of Non-immigrant Status to F-1 Status|accessdate = February 1, 2016}}</ref>

In general, the USCIS does not approve transition to student status with a start date more than 30 days prior to the program start date. Therefore, applications where the applicant's current status expires more than 30 days before the start date of their program are likely to be rejected.<ref name=i-539-instructions>{{cite web|url = http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-539instr.pdf|title = Instructions for Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = February 1, 2016}}</ref>

=== For students transferring from one educational institution to another ===

Transfer students do not need to file Form I-539 or pay the SEVIS fee again. They can also re-enter on a student visa for a previous institution as long as the visa is still valid.

=== Reporting arrival ===

In order to maintain legal student status, the student is required to report to the international office at his/her institution about his/her successful arrival, along with all the relevant documentation (Form I-20, passport, visa, Form I-94). The international office in turn updates the student's SEVIS record indicating that the student has reported for studies.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/content/f-1-and-j-1-student-e-check|title = F-1 and J-1 Student Online Check In|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

== Maintaining student status ==

=== "D/S" annotation on Form I-94 ===

The [[Form I-94]] that is issued to F-1 students upon arrival is generally annotated "D/S" indicating duration of status, which means that the student can stay in the United States as long as he/she is in valid student status. In addition, there is a grace period of 60 days after the completion of studies to depart the United States.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://internationaloffice.berkeley.edu/i-94|title = Understanding the I-94 Arrival/Departure Record|accessdate = February 10, 2016|publisher = [[University of California, Berkeley]]}}</ref><ref name=shareok>{{cite web|url = A Descriptive Case Study of the Impact of 9/11 on International Student Visa Policy in the 20 Months Following the Attacks|author = Mary Helen Reeves|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

The exception to "D/S" is in cases where the student's documentation is not considered complete or satisfactory by the officer at the port of entry. In this case, the expiration date on the Form I-94 is listed as thirty days from the present date, and the student is issued Form I-515A, indicating what information was missing from the student's documentation. The student must contact his or her international office for help with obtaining the correct documentation.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://studyinthestates.dhs.gov/what-is-a-form-i-515a|title = What is a Form I-515A?|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/news/library/forms/pdf/i515a.pdf|title = I-515A, Notice to Student or Exchange Visitor|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]}}</ref>

=== Conditions for being in valid student status ===

Under ordinary conditions (i.e., unless any exceptions apply) a student must, in order to maintain valid student status:

* maintain a "full course load" (unless the institution approves the student for a Reduced Course Load)
* not be engaged in any off-campus employment
* have an accurate SEVIS record, and in particular, shoud not be past the program end date indicated on the Form I-20.

==== Full course load requirement ====

The SEVP regulations stipulate one requirement for staying in status as being that the student must maintain a Full Course Load, defined as 12 or more credit hours for credit-bearing schools and 18 or more contact hours for intensive English program enrollment.<ref name=shareok/> However, the precise translation of the requirement in terms of the structure of courses at a particular institution may vary by institution.

The following are the accepted reasons for having a Reduced Course Load in a given quarter or semester:<ref name=uchicago-rcl>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/maintaining-full-time-course-load|title = Maintaining a Full Time Course Load|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]}}</ref><ref name=iss-special-cases>{{cite web|url = https://iss.washington.edu/procedures/drop-and-withdrawl|title = Dropping a Course, Withdrawal, and On-Leave Status|publisher = [[University of Washington]]}}</ref>

* Final quarter or semester, where only a partial course load is needed to meet graduation requirements (this can be availed at most one time)
* Medical condition (this can be availed at most four times)
* Academic difficulty (this can be availed at most one time). Three types of reasons are allowed:
** Initial difficulty with the English language or reading requirements
** Unfamiliarity with U.S. teaching methods
** Improper course level placement

RCL must be applied for in advance so that the SEVIS record can be updated and a new Form I-20 noting the RCL can be issued.

==== Employment ====

Unless approved for practical training, a person in student status may only engage in on-campus employment.<ref name=ice-employment>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/sevis/employment|title = Employment|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref> On-campus employment may include:<ref name=iss-on-campus>{{cite web|url = https://iss.washington.edu/employment/f1-employment/on-campus|title = On-Campus Employment|publisher = University of Washington International Student Services|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref name=ice-employment/>

* Employment by the institution, for instance, as a teaching assistant, research assistant, or library student worker
* Work performed in a location on campus for a commercial firm providing direct services to students, for instance, at a campus bookstore even if not owned by the university
* Employment at an off-campus location that is educationally affiliated with the institution. The work must be associated with the academic department's curriculum, related to contractually funded projects at the post-graduate level, and integral to the curriculum.

There are also limits on the amount of time a student may engage in on-campus employment. While school is in session, this can be no more than 20 hours per week. While school is out of session, there are no restrictions on the amount of work.<ref name=iss-on-campus/>

There are two ways a person in student status may be able to legally qualify for off-campus employment: [[Curricular Practical Training]] and [[Optional Practical Training]]. Both of these need to be approved by the institution and included in the student's SEVIS record and Form I-20. Within Optional Practical Training, there is both pre-completion and post-completion OPT.

Note that a student is not allowed to engage in on-campus employment during the 60-day grace period after completion of studies. Moreover, while the student is on post-completion OPT, the student can only engage in the type of employment permitted by that OPT, and therefore cannot engage in arbitrary on-campus work.

Note that over and above the rules imposed on account of F student status, the student and employers must also comply with all existing federal, state, and local regulations pertaining to wages, working conditions, and tax law. For instance, the student may need to obtain a [[Social Security Number]] in order to be able to engage in on-campus work, and employers may ask the student to fill [[I-9 (form)|Form I-9]] at the start of employment.<ref name=iss-on-campus/>

==== Leave of Absence and withdrawal ====

The F status does not explicitly recognize Leave of Absence. Rather, if somebody intends to take a lengthy leave of absence, then their institution terminates their SEVIS record for "Authorized Early Withdrawal". There is a 15-day grace period to depart the United States on such a terminated record. If the student then returns in 5 months or fewer, the F-1 status can be reactivated with the same I-20 and without any effect on OPT/CPT eligibility (this has a lead time of up to a month). If more than 5 months elapse, a new SEVIS record must be created for the student, with a new Form I-20.<ref name=uchicago-leave>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/leave-absence-and-withdrawal|title = Leave of Absence and Withdrawal|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref name=5-month-rule>{{cite web|url = https://studyinthestates.dhs.gov/2015/01/what-is-the-five-month-rule|title = What is the Five-Month Rule?|date = January 14, 2015|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

Physical absence from the United States for a contiguous period of over five months automatically deactivates one's student status, even if the student did not explicitly request termination of the SEVIS record.<ref name=5-month-rule/>

=== Maintaining the correct program end date ===

It may happen that the student's actual program end date falls earlier or later than what the student expected. It is necessary that a new I-20 be issued reflecting the current program end date, both prior to the program's actual end and prior to the stated program end date on the Form I-20.

If the Form I-20 is being shortened, the international office may require the student to submit evidence showing that the student has enough academic credits to graduate early.<ref name=shortenprogram/> if the Form I-20 is being extended, then, in addition to any evidence from the student about changed academic plans, the international office also needs an updated statement of financial resources for the new I-20 to cover up to one year of the I-20 extension.

After the change to the program end date is made in the student's SEVIS record, the new Form I-20 is issued to the student.

It is important to note that the program end date on the Form I-20 need not coincide with the graduation date. Rather, it is the end date of the student's enrollment in courses. It is not possible to extend the program end date simply in order to be able to stay around till the graduation ceremony. If the graduation ceremony falls outside the 60-day grace period of completion of coursework, then the student must find some other way to be legally present for it (for instance, by staying around on [[Optional Practical Training]], or getting a [[B visa]] for the graduation ceremony).<ref name=shortenprogram>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/shortenprogram|title = Finishing Courses Earlier Than I-20/DS-2019 End Date|accessdate = February 9, 2016|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]}}</ref>

=== Travel and re-entry ===

Whenever the student re-enters the United States after traveling, the student must have all of these at the time of arrival at the port of entry:<ref>{{cite web|url = https://iss.washington.edu/travel_signatures|title = Travel Signatures|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref>

* A valid passport (valid for at least six more months)
* A valid F or M visa
* A valid I-20 (i.e., an I-20 whose program end date has not yet arrived)
* A travel signature on the I-20 (page 3) from the DSO that is at most one year old (six months in the case of students currently on post-completion [[Optional Practical Training]])

Since travel signatures are valid for only a year, students need to periodically get updated travel signatures on their I-20 from their international student office. The purpose of this requirement is to avoid cases where people who are no longer enrolled as students at an institution keep using an outdated Form I-20 to get in. In particular, when adding a new travel signature to the OPT, it is the responsibility of the international student office to make sure that the student is still enrolled at the institution. In case the Form I-20 runs out of space for travel signatures, the international office may print out a new Form I-20 for the student.

In the special case of [[automatic visa revalidation]], whereby the student returns to the United States after a trip to Canada, Mexico, or a nearby island for at most 30 days, it is not necessary to have a valid visa at the time of re-entry. However, it is still necessary to have a valid Form I-20 and a travel signature.<ref name=travel-visas>{{cite web|url = https://iss.washington.edu/travel-visas|title = Travel & Visas|accessdate = February 9, 2016}}</ref>

=== After completion of studies ===

After completion of studies, a student has a 60-day grace period to depart the United States. Note that it is not possible to ''re-enter'' the United States during this grace period, regardless of the validity of visa or travel signatures. This does give the student some time to change to another non-immigrant status if applicable. However, if the student is unable to successfully change status the student must nonetheless depart the United States.<ref name=grace-periods>{{cite web|url = http://isss.gsu.edu/current-students/f-1-status/grace-periods/|title = Grace Periods|publisher = [[Georgia State University]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

One way a student can continue to stay in the United States on student status after completion of studies is by being approved for post-completion [[Optional Practical Training]]. Post-completion OPT can start at most 60 days after the completion of studies, and requires the student to work at least 20 hours a week (excluding up to 90 days of unemployment) on topics related to the student's program of study. Post-completion OPT can be at most 12 months long. While doing post-completion OPT, the student is still in F status but cannot engage in arbitrary on-campus employment or enroll in a degre program.

== Dependents ==

The status for dependents (spouses and children) of people on F-1 status is the F-2 status. Since the F-2 status is a derivative status, a person goes out of F-2 status as soon as the corresponding principal (the student in F-1 status) goes out of F-1 status.<ref name=f-2-byu>{{cite web|url = https://internationalservices.byu.edu/content/f-2-status-requirements|title = F-2 Status Requirements|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

The F-2 dependent may enter the United States along with the F-1 principal, or at any later time.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.ois.uic.edu/students/prospective/dependents|title = Dependents|publisher = [[University of Illinois at Chicago]]}}</ref>

F-2 dependent spouses have a very limited range of activities they can legally do. In particular, they are not allowed to enroll in a full course of study (but they may still attend classes at a SEVP-certified school) and they are not allowed to work, and cannot obtain Social Security Numbers. This differs somewhat from J-2 spouses, who can take coursework and are also eligible for work authorization though they need to apply for it.<ref name=ice-who-can-study>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/sevis/pdf/Nonimmigrant%20Class%20Who%20Can%20Study.pdf|title = Nonimmigrants: Who Can Study?|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref name=uchicago-f-vs-j>{{cite web|url = https://internationalaffairs.uchicago.edu/page/choosing-between-f-1-and-j-1-status|title = Choosing Between F-1 and J-1 Status|accessdate = February 10, 2016|publisher = [[University of Chicago]]}}</ref> If a person on F-2 status gets admitted to a degree program in the United States, that person can transition to F-1 status after obtaining a Form I-20 and then filing [[Form I-539]].<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.american.edu/ocl/isss/Change-of-Status-F-2-to-F-1.cfm|title = Change of Status: F-2 to F-1|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref> However, the person will need to a get a new visa for subsequent re-entry to the United States.

F-2 dependent minor children can study in school (K-12, i.e., secondary or lower level of education). If unmarried, the same permissions and restrictions apply to them for post-secondary education as apply to F-2 dependent spouses: they can take classes at a SEVP-certified school but cannot engage in a full course of study.<ref name=ice-who-can-study/>

== History ==

=== Early origins of the student visa program ===

Until the late 19th century, migration to the United States was relatively unrestricted, so that there was no special immigration status needed for students. However, the Passenger Act of 1855 recognized students as one of several classes of temporary immigrants, and the [[Chinese Exclusion Act]], that excluded all Chinese, carved out an exception for students.<ref name=shareok/> By 1913, U.S. Bureau of Education records indicated that 4,222 international students were enrolled in 275 U.S. universities, colleges, and technical schools; most of them were sent by foreign governments for education and training that would be useful when the students returned home.<ref name=shareok/> 

The [[Institute of International Education]] was formed in 1919 to protect and promote the interests of international students and exchange visitors. Lobbying by the IIE led in 1921 to the classification of students as nonimmigrants and the creation of a separate nonimmigrant visa for students, thereby exempting students from the numerical quotas placed in the [[Emergency Quota Act]] of 1921 and the [[Immigration Act of 1924]].<ref name=shareok/><ref name=iie-history>{{cite web|url = http://www.iie.org/Who-We-Are/History|title = A Brief History of IIE|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref> Starting 1918, all noncitizens started being required to obtain visas prior to entry to the United States, and in 1924, Congress enacted a provision requiring consular officers to make a determination of admissibility prior to issuing a visa.<ref name=americanbar>{{cite web|url = http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/supreme_court_preview/BriefsV4/13-1402_amicus_resp_lawprofs.authcheckdam.pdf|title = Brief of ''Amicus Curiae'' Law Professors in Support of Respondent (Kerry v. Din)|publisher = [[American Bar Association]]}}</ref> As a result, starting around this time, the majority of noncitizens coming to the United States for study did so on student visas.

=== Tightening of student visa requirements in the aftermath of terrorist attacks ===

In the [[1993 World Trade Center bombing]], a [[truck bomb]] was detonated below the North Tower of the [[World Trade Center]] in [[New York City]]. In the aftermath of this incident, the student visa came under increased scrutiny when it was discovered that one of the terrorists involved was in the United States on an expired student visa.<ref name=shareok/><ref name=ins-fsp-report>{{cite web|url = https://oig.justice.gov/special/0205/chapter6.htm|title = CHAPTER SIX. THE INS'S FOREIGN STUDENT PROGRAM|date = May 20, 2002|accessdate = February 16, 2016}}</ref>

A memorandum from the [[U.S. Department of Justice]]'s Office of Investigative Agency Policies to the Deputy Attorney General dated September 24, 1994, mentioned the need to subject foreign students to thorough and continuing scrutiny before and during their stay in the United States. On April 17, 1995, the Deputy Attorney General asked the INS Commissioner to address this issue. This led to the formation of an INS task force in June 1995 to conduct a comprehensive review of the F, M, and J visa processes. Besides the INS, the task force included members from the State Department and the United States Information Agency, and experts in the administration of international student programs.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> The task force report, issued on December 22, 1995, identified problems in the tracking and monitoring of students by schools, problems in the certification of schools by the INS, and problems with INS receiving and maintaining up-to-date records from schools.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> As a result of these findings, the [[Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996]] directed the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to develop and conduct a program to collect certain information on nonimmigrant foreign students and exchange visitors from approved institutions of higher education and designated exchange visitor programs.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/><ref name=shareok/>

In June 1997, the INS launched a pilot program for a centralized electronic reporting system for institutions, called the Coordinated Interagency Partnership Regulating International Students (CIPRIS). The CIPRIS pilot officially ended in October 1999, as the INS felt it had gathered enough data from the prototype to start working on the nationwide system.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> The INS began working on a new system that would be called the [[Student and Exchange Visitor Program]] (SEVP) with the associated information system called the Student and Exchange Visitor Information Service (SEVIS). During the rollout, CIPRIS and SEVIS met with considerable opposition from the [[Association of International Educators]] and the [[American Council on Education]]. However, they claimed that the opposition was not against the programs in principle but due to the concern that a botched rollout by the INS could result in many student suffering.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/><ref name=shareok/>

==== Study under B visa was no longer allowed, leading to increased reliance on F and M visas ====

In the aftermath of the [[September 11 attacks]], there was further increase in scrutiny of student visas, increasing the momentum in favor of the adoption of SEVIS.<ref name=shareok/><ref name=ins-fsp-report/> In addition, since some of the people involved with the September 11 attacks had originally intended on B visas but then taken courses at flight schools, the rules surrounding study by people on B visas were tightened. Previously, people on [[B visa]] could undertake short courses of study. Now, anybody on a B visa was required to transition to a F or M visa prior to starting a program of study. Moreover, people on B status could transition using [[Form I-539]] (i.e., change status while in the US) only if their visa had an annotation indicating that they might transition to student status.<ref name=shareok/>

==== Study of sensitive subjects and national security concerns ====

A Presidential Directive on May 7, 2002, called for the creation of the [[Interagency Panel on Advanced Science and Security]] (IPASS). The original intent of IPASS was to help with the evaluation of suspicious visa applications in subjects that had implications for national security.<ref name=shareok/><ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.aps.org/publications/apsnews/200208/visas.cfm|title = Proposed New Department Complicates Outlook for Visas|publisher = [[American Physical Society]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016|publisher = [[American Physical Society]]}}</ref> 

A Technology Alert List (TAL) was originally created in November 2000, and subsequently expanded in August 2002. This list contains various types of technologies and domains of study that were particularly sensitive, whereby applicants for student visas in those domains of study received additional scrutiny. In addition it included a list of designated State Sponsors of Terrorism, countries from which visa applicants received additional scrutiny.<ref name=ias-tal>{{cite web|url = https://www.ias.edu/campus/vvs/alerts-tech|title = Technology Alert List|publisher = [[Institute for Advanced Study]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://2001-2009.state.gov/r/pa/ei/othertstmy/33002.htm|title = Foreign Students and Scholars in the Age of Terrorism|last = Jacobs|first = Janice|date = March 26, 2003|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

=== Complete transition to SEVIS ====

All schools and programs in the United States hosting international students and scholars were required to begin using SEVIS by January 30, 2003. SEVIS has since gone through six major release versions to resolve technical problems and accommodate new reporting requirements.



