== History ==

=== Early origins of the student visa program ===

Until the late 19th century, migration to the United States was relatively unrestricted, so that there was no special immigration status needed for students. However, the Passenger Act of 1855 recognized students as one of several classes of temporary immigrants, and the [[Chinese Exclusion Act]], that excluded all Chinese skilled and unskilled laborers, carved out an exception for students.<ref name=shareok/> By 1913, U.S. Bureau of Education records indicated that 4,222 international students were enrolled in 275 U.S. universities, colleges, and technical schools; most of them were sent by foreign governments for education and training that would be useful when the students returned home.<ref name=shareok/> 

The [[Institute of International Education]] was formed in 1919 to protect and promote the interests of international students and exchange visitors. Lobbying by the IIE led in 1921 to the classification of students as nonimmigrants and the creation of a separate nonimmigrant visa for students, thereby exempting students from the numerical quotas placed in the [[Emergency Quota Act]] of 1921 and the [[Immigration Act of 1924]].<ref name=shareok/><ref name=iie-history>{{cite web|url = http://www.iie.org/Who-We-Are/History|title = A Brief History of IIE|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref> Starting 1918, all noncitizens started being required to obtain visas prior to entry to the United States, and in 1924, Congress enacted a provision requiring consular officers to make a determination of admissibility prior to issuing a visa.<ref name=americanbar>{{cite web|url = http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/supreme_court_preview/BriefsV4/13-1402_amicus_resp_lawprofs.authcheckdam.pdf|title = Brief of ''Amicus Curiae'' Law Professors in Support of Respondent (Kerry v. Din)|publisher = [[American Bar Association]]}}</ref> As a result, starting around this time, the majority of noncitizens coming to the United States for study did so on student visas.

=== Post-World War II changes ===

In the aftermath of World War II, [[student migration]] bloomed worldwide as its importance in cultural exchange was widely recognized. The [[Fulbright Program]] was launched (b

(When did the M visa begin?)

The [[Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952]] created a new framework for immigration law; all subsequent immigration legislation worked by modifying this. The [[Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965]] formally abolished the previous racial quotas. While the law continued to impose numerical restrictions on ''permanent'' immigration, there were now no country-based restrictions on student visas (but were there any earlier?)

Increase in immigration from China

Chinese Student Protection Act?

=== Tightening of student visa requirements in the aftermath of terrorist attacks ===

In the [[1993 World Trade Center bombing]], a [[truck bomb]] was detonated below the North Tower of the [[World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center]] in [[New York City]]. In the aftermath of this incident, the student visa came under increased scrutiny when it was discovered that one of the terrorists involved was in the United States on an expired student visa.<ref name=shareok/><ref name=ins-fsp-report>{{cite web|url = https://oig.justice.gov/special/0205/chapter6.htm|title = CHAPTER SIX. THE INS'S FOREIGN STUDENT PROGRAM|date = May 20, 2002|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

A memorandum from the [[U.S. Department of Justice]]'s Office of Investigative Agency Policies to the Deputy Attorney General dated September 24, 1994, mentioned the need to subject foreign students to thorough and continuing scrutiny before and during their stay in the United States. On April 17, 1995, the Deputy Attorney General asked the INS Commissioner to address this issue. This led to the formation of an INS task force in June 1995 to conduct a comprehensive review of the F, M, and J visa processes. Besides the INS, the task force included members from the State Department and the United States Information Agency, and experts in the administration of international student programs.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> The task force report, issued on December 22, 1995, identified problems in the tracking and monitoring of students by schools, problems in the certification of schools by the INS, and problems with INS receiving and maintaining up-to-date records from schools.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> As a result of these findings, the [[Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996]] directed the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to develop and conduct a program to collect certain information on nonimmigrant foreign students and exchange visitors from approved institutions of higher education and designated exchange visitor programs.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/><ref name=shareok/>

In June 1997, the INS launched a pilot program for a centralized electronic reporting system for institutions, called the Coordinated Interagency Partnership Regulating International Students (CIPRIS). The CIPRIS pilot officially ended in October 1999, as the INS felt it had gathered enough data from the prototype to start working on the nationwide system.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/> The INS began working on a new system that would be called the [[Student and Exchange Visitor Program]] (SEVP) with the associated information system called the Student and Exchange Visitor Information Service (SEVIS). During the rollout, CIPRIS and SEVIS met with considerable opposition from the [[NAFSA: Association of International Educators|Association of International Educators]] and the [[American Council on Education]]. However, they claimed that the opposition was not against the programs in principle but due to the concern that a botched rollout by the INS could result in many students suffering.<ref name=ins-fsp-report/><ref name=shareok/>

==== Study under B visa was no longer allowed, leading to increased reliance on F and M visas ====

In the aftermath of the [[September 11 attacks]], there was further increase in scrutiny of student visas, increasing the momentum in favor of the adoption of SEVIS.<ref name=shareok/><ref name=ins-fsp-report/> In addition, since some of the people involved with the September 11 attacks had originally entered on B visas but then taken courses at flight schools, the rules surrounding study by people on B visas were tightened. Previously, people on [[B visa]] could undertake short courses of study. Now, anybody on a B visa was required to transition to a F or M visa prior to starting a program of study. Moreover, people on B status could transition using [[Form I-539]] (i.e., change status while in the US) only if their visa had an annotation indicating that they might transition to student status.<ref name=shareok/>

==== Study of sensitive subjects and national security concerns ====

A Presidential Directive on May 7, 2002, called for the creation of the [[Interagency Panel on Advanced Science and Security]] (IPASS). The original intent of IPASS was to help with the evaluation of suspicious visa applications in subjects that had implications for national security.<ref name=shareok/><ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.aps.org/publications/apsnews/200208/visas.cfm|title = Proposed New Department Complicates Outlook for Visas|accessdate = February 10, 2016|publisher = [[American Physical Society]]}}</ref> 

A Technology Alert List (TAL) was originally created in November 2000, and subsequently expanded in August 2002. This list contains various types of technologies and domains of study that were particularly sensitive, whereby applicants for student visas in those domains of study received additional scrutiny. In addition it included a list of designated State Sponsors of Terrorism, countries from which visa applicants received additional scrutiny.<ref name=ias-tal>{{cite web|url = https://www.ias.edu/campus/vvs/alerts-tech|title = Technology Alert List|publisher = [[Institute for Advanced Study]]|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://2001-2009.state.gov/r/pa/ei/othertstmy/33002.htm|title = Foreign Students and Scholars in the Age of Terrorism|last = Jacobs|first = Janice|date = March 26, 2003|accessdate = February 10, 2016}}</ref>

==== Complete transition to SEVIS ====

All schools and programs in the United States hosting international students and scholars were required to begin using SEVIS by January 30, 2003. SEVIS has since gone through six major release versions to resolve technical problems and accommodate new reporting requirements.
