== Application process ==

The process in order for a worker to be able to start in H-2A status involves a job order from a State Workforce Agency, a Temporary Labor Certification from the U.S. Department of Labor Employment & Training Administration's Office of Foreign Labor Certification, a Form I-129 approval from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (a branch of the [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]), a visa from a consular officer representing the [[U.S. Department of State]], and a [[Form I-94]] issued by [[U.S. Customs and Border Protection]] at a port of entry.<ref name=h-2a-certification/><ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-2a-temporary-agricultural-workers|title = H-2A Temporary Agricultural Workers|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = April 10, 2016}}</ref><ref name=congressional-report>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Resources/Resources%20for%20Congress/Congressional%20Reports/H-2A%20and%20H-2B%20Nonimmigrant%20Worker%20Classifications.pdf|title = H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigration Worker Classifications (presentation)|publisher = 2010 National Congressional Conference|accessdate = April 11, 2016}}</ref>

=== Job order (ETA Form 790) ===

A job offer (ETA Form 790) must be filed with the State Workforce Agency (SWA) in the area of intended employment between 60 and 75 days before the date of need for workers.<ref name=h-2a-certification/> Each State Workforce Agency has a mailing address and some have websites, contact email addresses, and phone numbers. The State Workforce Agency is also responsible for handling job orders for the [[H-2B visa]], but the specific contact person or mailing address may differ.<ref name=addresses>{{cite web|url = https://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/contacts.cfm|title = Foreign Labor Certification Contacts List|accessdate = April 11, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Labor]] [[Employment & Training Administration]] Office of Foreign Labor Certification}}</ref> The job orders are publicly listed by the State Workforce Agency (including on their website). Additionally, the employer must advertise for the position in local newspapers. Any United States citizen who applies for the job must be given one.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.cgdev.org/blog/do-farm-workers-developing-countries-take-jobs-americans|title = Do Farm Workers from Developing Countries Take Jobs from Americans?|last = Clemens|first = Michael|authorlink = Michael Clemens|date = February 28, 2012|accessdate = April 11, 2016}}</ref>

=== H-2A Temporary Labor Certification from the U.S. Department of Labor ===

The employer needs to obtain a Temporary Labor Certification (TLC) from the [[United States Department of Labor]] [[Employment & Training Administration]]'s Office of Foreign Labor Certification.<ref name=h-2a-certification>{{cite web|url = https://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/h-2a.cfm|title = H-2A Certification|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Labor]] [[Employment & Training Administration]] Office of Foreign Labor Certification}}</ref> Note that this labor certification should not be confused with [[labor certification|PERM labor certification]] for employment-based permanent immigration, or with the [[Labor Condition Application]] for H-1B and similar statuses. It is also separate from a similar process for H-2B temporary labor certification.

The application package must include ETA Form 9142A and an accepted Job Order (ETA Form 790) from the State Workforce Agency. It must be filed with the Chicago National Processing Center ''or'' online through the iCert portal, no less than 45 days prior to the employer's date of need.<ref name=h-2a-certification/>

In order to approve the certification, the Department must verify that:

# there are not sufficient able, willing, and qualified U.S. workers available to perform the temporary and seasonal agricultural employment for which nonimmigrant foreign workers are being requested; and
# employment of H-2A workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. The statute and Departmental regulations provide numerous worker protections and employer requirements with respect to wages and working conditions. The Department's Wage and Hour Division (WHD) has responsibility for enforcing provisions of worker contracts.

=== Form I-129 petition submitted to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ===

{{see also|Form I-129}}

The employer must submit a Form I-129 (Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker) on behalf of the prospective worker (beneficiary) with the [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]], with the job order (ETA Form 790) and the approved H-2A Temporary Labor Certification as initial evidence.<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/> Note that Form I-129 is used for a large number of nonimmigrant worker statuses, not just the H-2A. Those using it for the H-2A status need to fill the main form followed by the H classification supplement, Pages 13-17.<ref name=i-129>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/i-129.pdf|title = I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker|accessdate = April 12, 2016|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]}}</ref> 

The H-2A status is one of the statuses where it is possible for a single Form I-129 to be used for multiple beneficiaries. Additional beneficiaries may be listed on Attachment 1 (Pages 35-36) of Form I-129. However, all beneficiaries listed in a single petition must have the same requested start and end date, and they are all approved together. In case different start dates are needed for different beneficiaries, or one of them has a more complicated situation (so that beneficiary's petition may be delayed) employers are advised to file separate I-129s for such employees.<ref name=uscis-h2a-overview/><ref name=i-129/><ref name=multiple-persons>{{cite web|url = http://www.alllaw.com/articles/nolo/us-immigration/file-one-i-129-petition-multiple-workers.html|title = Can You File One I-129 Petition for Multiple Workers? For some types of work visas, employers may save time and money by filing one visa petition for more than one worker. There are some downsides though.|last = Kendall|first = Emily|accessdate = April 11, 2016}}</ref>

The filing fee for Form I-129 is $325. Forms are automatically expedited given the seasonal and time-sensitive nature of agricultural work, but it is also possible to request [[Premium Processing Service]] for $1225 to get an initial response within 15 calendar days.<ref name=uscis-premium-processing>{{cite web|url=http://www.uscis.gov/forms/how-do-i-use-premium-processing-service|title = How Do I Use the Premium Processing Service?|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = April 4, 2015}}</ref>

In general, Form I-129 petitions can be submitted six months in advance of the job start date. However, since the petition's initial evidence includes a job order, that must be filed between 60 and 75 days before the start date, the application can effectively be submitted at most 75 days prior to the start date.

==== Eligible Countries List ====

[[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]] is given an Eligible Countries List for H-2 visas (with slight differences between the H-2A and H-2B) andgenerally approves petitions only if the beneficiary is from a country on the list. Updates to the Eligible Countries List are published in the ''[[Federal Register]]''. Effective January 18, 2016 the Eligible Countries List contains 84 countries, and the full list can be found on the USCIS website.<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/> The list has expanded since it originally started: 16 new countries having been added as recently as November 2015.<ref name=uscis-additions-to-ecl>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/news/uscis-announces-addition-16-countries-eligible-participate-h-2a-and-h-2b-visa-programs|title = USCIS Announces Addition of 16 Countries Eligible to Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Visa Programs|accessdate = April 13, 2016|date = November 18, 2015|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]}}</ref>

According to official regulations, a national from a country not on the list may only be the beneficiary of an approved H-2A petition if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that it is in the U.S. interest for him or her to be the beneficiary of such a petition.<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/> However, historically hundreds of people from Haiti have come to the United States on H-2A visas before Haiti was formally added to the Eligible Countries List. 

A country may be added to the list based on a recommendation from the [[U.S. Department of State]], the country's government, an employer that would like to hire nationals of the country in H-2A status, or any other interested party or parties. When designating countries to include on the list, the Secretary of Homeland Security, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, will take into account factors including, but not limited to:<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/>

# The country's cooperation with issuing travel documents for citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country who are subject to a final order of removal;
# The number of final and unexecuted (meaning completed but not yet carried out) orders of removal against citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country;
# The number of orders of removal executed against citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country; and
# Other factors as may serve the U.S. interest.


=== Visa application ===

If the beneficiary is already in the United States in a valid status and with no requirement to leave the United States, the beneficiary can simply transition to H-2A status. If the beneficiary is outside the United States, two additional steps are needed:<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/>

* The beneficiary must apply for a H-2A visa to a United States consulate in his or her home country with the approved Form I-129 petition, ETA Form 790, approved Temporary Labor Certification, and other necessary documents. The visa decision is made by a consular officer representing the [[U.S. Department of State]].
* Armed with the H-2A visa and other documents, the beneficary may present himself or herself at a port of entry, where an officer working for [[U.S. Customs and Border Protection]] issues the beneficiary a [[Form I-94]] for H-2A status.

== Validity ==

=== Basic rules ===

Below are the basic rules governing the H-2A status:<ref name=uscis-h-2a-overview/>

* Each Form I-129 petition for initial employment or extension of employment can be for a duration of at most one year.
* After the worker has completed three years in H-2A status, the worker must leave the United States for at least three months before being able to return in H-2A status. In fact, the rules count continuous stay across all H statuses for the purpose of counting the three years.

=== Calculation of interrupted stay ===

For workers who leave the United States temporarily, the following rules apply with respect to excluding time outside the United States:<ref name=interrupted-stay>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/working-united-states/temporary-workers/h-2a-agricultural-workers/calculating-interrupted-stays-h-2-classifications|title = Calculating Interrupted Stays for the H-2 Classifications|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = April 12, 2016}}</ref>

* If the worker was in the United States for 18 months or less, then H-2 time is interrupted if the worker is outside the United States for at least 45 days but less than 3 months. This means that time spent outside the United States will not count toward the 3-year limit, but rather, upon return, the worker's clock will resume from where it left off at the time of departure.
* If the worker has been in the United States for somewhere between 18 months and 3 years, the worker's H-2 time is interrupted if the worker is outside the United States for at least 2 months but less than 3 months.

Note that the time needed outside the United States in order to qualify for an interrupted stay exceeds the maximum time permissible for [[automatic visa revalidation]], which is 30 days.

== History ==

=== Introduction in 1986 ===

The [[Immmigration and Nationality Act of 1952]] introduced a temporary unskilled worker category, the H-2 category. The [[Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986]] subdivided this category into two subcategories: the H-2A (an uncapped category for temporary agricultural workers) and H-2B (a capped category for temporary workers in other domains). The particular importance given to temporary agricultural workers was intended to balance the potential decline in the illegal immigrant population due to the increased border security and immigration enforcment provisions of the Act.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.workingimmigrants.com/2013/01/temporary_worker_programs_intr.html|title = Temporary worker programs: Introduction|date = January 12, 2013|accessdate = April 12, 2016|publisher = Working Immigrants}}</ref>

=== Introduction of Premium Processing Service in 2001 ===

On June 1, 2001, the [[Premium Processing Service]] was introduced at a price of $1000, available for [[Form I-129]] petitions for most statuses, including the H-2A status.<ref name=doj-factsheet>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/pressrelease/PremProcSer_060101.pdf|title = Fact Sheet: Premium Processing Service|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = April 12, 2016}}</ref> In November 2010, the Premium Processing Service fee was hiked from $1000 to $1225 as part of a general change to the fee schedule for USCIS forms. The change would become effective in 2011.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.h1base.com/visa/work/H1BFeesIncreaseForH1BVisa2011filingApplications%20/ref/1533/|title = H1B Fee Increase|publisher = H1Base|accessdate = April 5, 2015}}</ref>

=== Changes to the Eligible Countries List ===

The Eligible Countries List for the H-2A has grown gradually. Summarized below are the dates of various ''[[Federal Register]]'' announcements on updates to the list, with the total number of countries, number of new countries added, and the names of the new countries added.

{| class="sortable"
! Date !! Size of Eligible Countries List !! Increase relative to previous announcement !! Number of new countries !! Number of removed countries !! Full list !! New countries !! Removed countries
|-
| December 18, 2008<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2008/12/18/E8-29785/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-visa#h-6|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A Visa Program|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|date = December 18, 2008|accessdate = April 13, 2016|last = Schneider|first = Paul}}</ref> || 28 || || || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[El Salvador]], [[Guatemala]], [[Honduras]], [[Indonesia]], [[Israel]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[New Zealand]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Turkey]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]] || ||
|-
| January 19, 2010<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2010/01/19/2010-960/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Visa Programs|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|date = January 19, 2010|accessdate = April 13, 2016|last = Napolitano|first = Janet|authorlink = Janet Napolitano}}</ref> || 39 || 11 || 0 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Guatemala]], [[Honduras]], [[Indonesia]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Lithuania]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Turkey]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]] || [[Croatia]], [[Ecuador]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Indonesia]], [[Ireland]], [[Lithuania]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[Norway]], [[Serbia]], [[Uruguay]] || --
|-
| January 18, 2011<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2011/01/18/2011-646/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|date = Janaury 18, 2011|accessdate = April 13, 2016|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|last = Napolitano|first = Janet|authorlink = Janet Napolitano}}</ref> || 53 || 15 || 1 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Barbados]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Guatemala]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lithuania]], [[Macedonia]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Nauru]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Barbados]], [[Estonia]], [[Fiji]], [[Hungary]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Macedonia]], [[Nauru]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Samoa]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[Tonga]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Indonesia]]
|-
| January 18, 2012<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2012/01/18/2012-870/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|date = January 18, 2012|accessdate = April 13, 2016|last = Napolitano|first = Janet|authorlink = Janet Napolitano}}</ref>|| 58 || 5 || 0 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Barbados]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Guatemala]], [[Haiti]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Iceland]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lithuania]], [[Macedonia]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Montenegro]], [[Nauru]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Spain]], [[Switzerland]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Haiti]], [[Iceland]], [[Montenegro]], [[Spain]], [[Switzerland]] || --
|-
| January 18, 2013<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2013/01/18/2013-00908/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|last = Napolitano|first = Janet|authorlink = Janet Napolitano|date = January 18, 2013|accessdate = April 13, 2016}}</ref> || 59 || 1 || 0 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Barbados]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Grenada]], [[Guatemala]], [[Haiti]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Iceland]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lithuania]], [[Macedonia]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Montenegro]], [[Nauru]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Spain]], [[Switzerland]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Grenada]] || --
|-
| Janaury 17, 2014<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2014/01/17/2014-00331/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''|last = Johnson|first = Jeh Charles|authorlink = Jeh Johnson}}</ref> || 63 || 4 || 0 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Austria]], [[Barbados]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Grenada]], [[Guatemala]], [[Haiti]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Iceland]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Italy]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lithuania]], [[Macedonia]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Montenegro]], [[Nauru]], [[Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Panama]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Spain]], [[Switzerland]], [[Thailand]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Austria]], [[Italy]], [[Panama]], [[Thailand]] || --
|-
| December 16, 2014<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2014/12/16/2014-29353/identification-of-foreign-countries-whose-nationals-are-eligible-to-participate-in-the-h-2a-and-h-2b|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible To Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|last = Johnson|first = Jeh Charles|authorlink = Jeh Johnson|date = December 16, 2014|accessdate = April 13, 2016|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''}}</ref> || 68 || 5 || 0 || [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Austria]], [[Barbados]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Czech Republic]], [[Denmark]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Grenada]], [[Guatemala]], [[Haiti]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Iceland]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Italy]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lithuania]], [[Macedonia]], [[Madagascar]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Montenegro]], [[Nauru]], [[The Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Panama]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[The Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Portugal]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[Serbia]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Spain]], [[Sweden]], [[Switzerland]], [[Thailand]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Czech Republic]], [[Denmark]], [[Madagascar]], [[Portugal]], [[Sweden]] || --
|-
| November 18, 2015<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2015-11-18/html/2015-29373.htm|title = Identification of Foreign Countries Whose Nationals Are Eligible to Participate in the H-2A and H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker Programs|last = Johnson|first = Jeh Charles|date = November 18, 2015|accessdate = April 13, 2016|publisher = ''[[Federal Register]]''}}</ref><ref name=uscis-additions-to-ecl/> || 84 || 16 || 0 || [[Andorra]], [[Argentina]], [[Australia]], [[Austria]], [[Barbados]], [[Belgium]], [[Belize]], [[Brazil]], [[Brunei]], [[Bulgaria]], [[Canada]], [[Chile]], [[Colombia]], [[Costa Rica]], [[Croatia]], [[Czech Republic]], [[Denmark]], [[Dominican Republic]], [[Ecuador]], [[El Salvador]], [[Estonia]], [[Ethiopia]], [[Fiji]], [[Finland]], [[France]], [[Germany]], [[Greece]], [[Grenada]], [[Guatemala]], [[Haiti]], [[Honduras]], [[Hungary]], [[Iceland]], [[Ireland]], [[Israel]], [[Italy]], [[Jamaica]], [[Japan]], [[Kiribati]], [[Latvia]], [[Lichtenstein]], [[Lithuania]], [[Luxembourg]], [[Macedonia]], [[Madagascar]], [[Malta]], [[Mexico]], [[Moldova]], [[Monaco]], [[Montenegro]], [[Nauru]], [[The Netherlands]], [[Nicaragua]], [[New Zealand]], [[Norway]], [[Panama]], [[Papua New Guinea]], [[Peru]], [[The Philippines]], [[Poland]], [[Portugal]], [[Romania]], [[Samoa]], [[San Marino]], [[Serbia]], [[Singapore]], [[Slovakia]], [[Slovenia]], [[Solomon Islands]], [[South Africa]], [[South Korea]], [[Spain]], [[Sweden]], [[Switzerland]], [[Taiwan]], [[Thailand]], [[Timor-Leste]], [[Tonga]], [[Turkey]], [[Tuvalu]], [[Ukraine]], [[United Kingdom]], [[Uruguay]], [[Vanuatu]] || [[Andorra]], [[Belgium]], [[Brunei]], [[Colombia]], [[Finland]], [[France]], [[Germany]], [[Greece]], [[Lichtenstein]], [[Luxembourg]], [[Malta]], [[Monaco]], [[San Marino]], [[Singapore]], [[Taiwan]], [[Timor-Leste]] || --
|}