== Records of Labor Condition Applications ==

=== Data released by the Department of Labor ===

The [[United States Department of Labor]] Employment & Training Administration Office of Foreign Labor Certification, that processes LCAs, makes available various types of performance data on a quarterly and annual basis, including:<ref name=performance-data>{{cite web|url = https://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/performancedata.cfm|title = OFLC Performance Data|publisher = Office of Foreign Labor Certification|accessdate = April 2, 2016}}<ref>

* Overall annual performance reports: These are detailed reports that include both statistics and some interpretation of the statistics.
* Annual performance, broken down by state: This provides, for each state, the number of positions certified and the average wage officer for the top three cities and the top five occupations.
* Selected statistics, both for prevailing wage determination and for the Labor Condition program.
* Quarterly disclosure data, a large spreadsheet with complete information on the list of applications, their status (approved/denied), and the values of the fields in each application (the company sponsoring the applicant, the position, the wage, the prevailing wage quoted, etc.)

The website of ImmiHelp, that offers services to prospective immigrants, temporary workers and visitors to the United States, offers a user-friendly interface to look up LCAs by various filters (applicant name, company name, etc.) and displays the LCA based on the information in the public disclosure data, thereby helping prospective H-1B applicants find suitable companies based on criteria such as positions, wages, locations, and approval rates.<ref name=immihelp-search>{{cite web|url = http://www.immihelp.com/lca-perm-approval-daily-data/search-results|title = Search Employers|accessdate = April 2, 2016|publisher = ImmiHelp}}</ref> 

The [[Center for Immigration Studies]], a think tank that advocates strict limits on immigration and has been critical of temporary worker programs, has also used the available data on LCAs to better understand and critique the H-1B program. As CIS has noted in its critique, LCA data is a flawed proxy for understanding the H-1B program because not all LCAs get used for actual H-1B petitions, not all H-1B petitions with valid LCAs get approved, and not everybody with an approved petition is able to get a visa and start work. However, the [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]] releases much more coarse data on approved H-1B Form I-129 petitions, rather than data at the level of individual petitions, leading researchers and analysts to rely on LCA data more despite its flaws.<ref name=low-skills>{{cite web|url = http://cis.org/LowSalariesforLowSkills-H1B|title = Low Salaries for Low Skills: Wages and Skill Levels for H-1B Computer Workers, 2005|date = April 1, 2007|accessdate = April 2, 2016|last = Miano|first = John|publisher = [[Center for Immigration Studies]]}}</ref>

=== Public Access File ===

Any employer filing a Labor Condition Application for H-1B, H-1B1, or E-3 petitions is required to maintaing a Public Access File for each worker on such a status, as long as the worker is working and up to one year later. This file is intended to provide additional explanation for the way the employer filled the Labor Condition Application. The Public Access File must include:<ref name=murthy-paf>{{cite web|url = http://www.murthy.com/2011/06/17/employer-public-access-file-requirements-for-h1b-h1b1-and-e-3-workers/|title = Employer Public Access File Requirements for H1B, H1B1 and E-3 Workers|date = June 17, 2011|accessdate = March 31, 2016|publisher = Murthy Law Firm}}</ref><ref name=olender-paf>{{cite web|url = http://www.olender.pro/immigration/business-immigration/compliance/public-access-file|title = Maintaining the H-1B Public Access File|publisher= Olender Law Firm|accessdate = March 31, 2016}}</ref>

* A full, clear explanation of the system used to determine the prevailing wage (relevant to Attestation #1).
* A full, clear explanation of the system used to determine the actual wage (relevant to Attestation #1).
* Proof of satisfying union/employee notification requirements (relevant to Attestation #4).
* If an employer who ''prima facie'' appears to be H-1B-dependent (or ambiguous) files as H-1B-non-dependent, then information that explains the calculation.
* In the case that the employer is H-1B-dependent, a list of employees for whom exemption was claimed from the additional attestations (based on annual compensation or educational qualifications). This list need not be maintained if ''all'' employees are exempt.

The Public Access File must be made available to any member of the public within a few days of a request being made. Not having a Public Access File available at short notice is itself a compliance failure, even if the employer can generate the file (i.e., the employer has otherwise complied with all the rules).<ref name=murthy-paf/><ref name=olender-paf/>

Employers also need to maintain additional private information in a Private Access File to share with the [[United States Department of Labor]] in the event of an audit or fraud investigation, but this Private Access File cannot be requested by the public. Employers are strongly advised not to include any information in the Public Access File beyond what is mandated by law, so as not to violate the privacy of employees and the company's other stakeholders.<ref name=olender-paf/>
