Some starting ideas. Three potential places to work: WikiHow, Subwiki, and Wikipedia. Wikipedia is highest in reach, but WikiHow and Subwiki allow for the creation of some kind of content that cannot be put on Wikipedia.


== Data analysis ==

=== WikiHow: Understand audience profile ===

See https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/understand-audience-profile.mediawiki and brainstorm on whether WikiHow articles can be constructed from it. Pay: About $200 for a high-quality article starting off from this. But less or more depending on exact scope of stuff.

== Economics ==

=== Market: Expand content ===

http://market.subwiki.org was something I started a while back for economic theory. Some of its pages are quite good, and I feel it can do with a lot of strategic expansion. It has about 20,000 pageviews a month, despite being pretty stagnant and having < 300 pages. It has a lot of potential.

Pay plan to be decided but this can be a good alternative to blogging for crystallizing economic insights in a form that can be used as a reference by future generations. Willing to pay up to $1000 for a series of improvements before next evaluation of further payment.


== Immigration and non-immigrant visas (United States): Mostly Wikipedia ==

=== Student visa-related stuff ===

* Academic Training, the analogue for J-1 visas of Optional Practical Training. $150 for a page with comparable detail to that for the current page on Optional Practical Training.

=== B visa-related stuff ===

* B visa in lieu of other visas: Discuss B visa in lieu of H-1B, B visa in lieu of L visa, etc. Also mention discontinuance of B visa in lieu of student visas (forcing people to use M and F visas instead)

=== H-1B-related and EB-related regulations ===

* H-1B-dependent employer. Pay: $45

* Public Law 111-230. Pay: $25

* Expand discussion on the Labor Condition Application page to discuss the "multiple LCA" trick. Pay: $5

* Expand the Premium Processing Service page to discuss more on discretionary expedite requests. Pay: $5

=== Immigration (other countries) ===

Point(s) system (Canadian immigration law) -- similar page exists for UK, but nothing for Canada. Really??? $150

== Public choice ==

* Quadratic voting



