List of new articles that any interested author can work on. A parenthetical "(reserved)" means that an author has already announced that he or she is working on it. If that author later decides not to continue with it, the page will be returned to the general pool.

Before you begin working on a page, you should see if a page has been created on Wikipedia! On several occasions, a page was created on Wikipedia between the time when a topic was added in this pool and when a worker tried to reserve the page. Watch out for name changes (organizations occasionally rename themselves), similar phrases that mean the same thing, and so forth. A few things to try:

* [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=site%3Awikipedia.org Google for the topic with "site:wikipedia.org"]. Try searching both with and without quotes.
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Search&profile=all&search=&fulltext=1 Wikipedia's own search]. Note that by default, [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Controlling_search_engine_indexing#Namespace_control content in user and draft spaces are not indexed by search engines like Google]. Doing an "Everything" search will locate even content on these pages.

== Draft completion ==

Some already existing drafts need a little bit cleanup before they can be published and pushed to the world.

* Research preregistration: $18 for completion: Start from the draft at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Riceissa/Research_preregistration and complete. Work closely under Issa.

== New pages ==

=== Research methods: recruitment, surveys, etc. ===

* Food record(s) (aka food diary), two main types: weighted food records and estimated food record: Similar to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_frequency_questionnaire with parallel set of references

=== Global (and national/local) health: not specific to any disease ===

Many of these pages are listed because they are red-linked from [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priority-setting_in_global_health Priority-setting in global health].

* Selective primary healthcare: Expand on the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_healthcare#Selective_PHC section on the topic] and make this its own page.

* 1988 Riga Conference: Start by reading about [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alma_Ata_Declaration Alma Ata], since Riga was a follow-up to that. Also mention Riga in Alma Ata's page.

* Oregon Health Services Commission: One of the earlier efforts at explicit priority-setting within health. Start by reading the row for it at [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priority-setting_in_global_health#History_of_organizations_and_programs_working_on_priority-setting priority-setting in global health], as well as the references used there.

* WHO Ad Hoc Committee on Health Research Relating to Future Intervention Options: A WHO committee that did health research prioritization. Start by reading the description from a [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2205967/#__sec6 paper that mentions it] (note that the section year in that paper should be 1994, not 1944).

* Council on Health Research and Development: A council that reviewed health research and development from developing countries.

* Lives Saved Tool (reserved for Chris): A tool created at Johns Hopkins University.

* EVIDEM Collaboration: Conducts literature review, "discussions with stakeholders", and multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA).

* Jeremy Shiffman: A person at the Center for Global Development (see [http://www.cgdev.org/expert/jeremy-shiffman bio]) who has written papers about priority-setting.

* Global Rural-Urban Mapping Project (GRUMP): A population mapping project. Start with [http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/collection/grump-v1 this page]. Mention its importance in the [http://www.map.ox.ac.uk/explore/populations-risk/mapping-human-populations/ Malaria Atlas Project] (and other applications if they exist). Also make sure to mention GRUMP on the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria_Atlas_Project MAP Wikipedia page].

* WorldPop (reserved for Joey): A [http://www.worldpop.org.uk/ population mapping project]. History section should mention AfriPop, AsiaPop, and AmeriPop, why they were separate in the beginning, why they were combined into a single project, and so on. Mention its importance in the [http://www.map.ox.ac.uk/explore/populations-risk/mapping-human-populations/ Malaria Atlas Project] and other applications. Also make sure to mention WorldPop on the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaria_Atlas_Project MAP Wikipedia page].

* Igor Rudan: A researcher in global health. It's not clear he is notable enough to have a Wikipedia article, so part of your task will be to see if there's enough about him to write a page on/if he meets the notability criteria. Some of his work is [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priority-setting_in_global_health linked from the priority-setting in global health page]. Also see [http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(14)62006-7/abstract "Global health metrics needs collaboration and competition"] in ''The Lancet''.

* Opioid deaths in the United States: There is some information in [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opioid_use_disorder#United_States this section], so start with that. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opioid_overdose This page] also has some information. Some other articles you should/could cite: [http://www.psychiatryadvisor.com/news/global-burden-of-diseases-drug-abuse-and-alzheimer-disease/article/546504/ 1], [https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/12/08/heroin-deaths-surpass-gun-homicides-for-the-first-time-cdc-data-show/ 2]. The CDC has a lot of information; [https://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/index.html start here]. Note that [https://www.cdc.gov/media/subtopic/questions.htm#4 most CDC website content is in the public domain], so you can copy-paste directly into Wikipedia for the most part, ''as long as you mark it as such''. See what Issa did on [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anopheles&type=revision&diff=755961722&oldid=750334104 ''Anopheles''] (ask Issa for details).

=== Malaria ===

Note that after initial research, it may turn out for some of these pages that there's not enough yet to justify a Wikipedia page. You will be compensated for initial research and for leaving a partial stub in userspace.

Most of these are selected as red links from [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria Timeline of malaria].

* Research Initiative on Traditional Antimalarial Methods (RITAM) (reserved for Sebastian): Founded in 1999 as a collaboration between WHO, GIFTS, and Oxford. See some info on the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Initiative_for_Traditional_Systems_of_Health GIFTS page].

* Multilateral Initiative on Malaria: An alliance of organizations that facilitates research on malaria, established 1997.

* Global Malaria Control Strategy (reserved for Sebastian): Launched in 1992, confirmed by World Health Assembly in 1993. From the timeline of malaria Wikipedia page: "This new strategy is based largely upon the primary health care approach and requires flexible, cost-effective, sustainable, and decentralized programs based upon disease rather than parasite control, adapted to local conditions and responding to local needs. This approach becomes succesful and has positive impact in a number of countries such as Brazil, China, Solomon Islands, Philippines, Vanuatu, Vietnam, and Thailand. Its success demonstrates that malaria can be controlled by locally and currently available tools."

* Malaria Foundation International: Founded 1992 to fight against malaria.

* Abuja Declaration and African Summit on Roll Back Malaria – decide on the canonical title: a conference and accompanying declaration that took place in 2000 to commit to combating malaria. Mention predecessors like Harare Declaration of June 1997. Start with [https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1691/ this paper].

Some historical researchers (check for misspellings and existing pages; also check for Wikipedia pages in other languages):

* Ignace Vinke

* Marcel Lips

* Sebastiano Baldi

=== Philanthropy ===

(nothing at present, but stay tuned. Be in touch if there is something you are interested in and think fits in)

=== Politics ===

The following are all organizations that are [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Philanthropy_Project#Grants_made grantees of the Open Philanthropy Project under "Criminal Justice Reform"]. As such, your page should include a "Funding" section (or similar) that includes information about the Open Phil grant. See [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johns_Hopkins_Center_for_Health_Security here] for an example (note how there is a "Funding" section, and the page incorporates information from Open Phil's grant writeup). A good standard list of sections for an organization is: "History", "Funding", "Publications", "Reception", "See also" (related pages ''on Wikipedia''), "External links" (related pages or further reading ''outside of Wikipedia''), "References".

* Accountable Justice Project: See the [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/accountable-justice-project-general-support Open Phil writeup]. Note that this project is recently-launched/might not have launched yet. It also seems to be distinct from the "FSU Project on Accountable Justice" (see below; confusing, because if you [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=Accountable%20Justice%20Project Google for this], you get results for the latter). Watch also [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=site%3Aproteusfund.org%20accountable%20justice%20project this search result].

* Alliance for Safety and Justice: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/alliance-safety-and-justice-general-support Open Phil's grant writeup], [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/alliance-safety-and-justice-general-support-2 round two of funding], and [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/blog/supporting-launch-alliance-safety-and-justice this blog post].

* Ayni Institute: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ayni-institute-movement-ecology-training Open Phil's original writeup]. Good Ventures also has [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/ayni-institute-movement-ecology-training pretty much the same thing] on their website. See also the [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ayni-institute-momentum-training July 2016] and [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ayni-institute-movement-ecology-and-metrics December 2016] updates.

* Brooklyn Community Bail Fund: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/brooklyn-community-bail-fund-general-support Open Phil] and [http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/03/17/brooklyn-community-bail-fund_n_6886836.html HuffPo].

* Colorado Criminal Justice Reform Coalition: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/colorado-criminal-justice-reform-coalition-general-support Open Phil] and [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%22Colorado%20Criminal%20Justice%20Reform%20Coalition%22#q=%22Colorado+Criminal+Justice+Reform+Coalition%22&hl=en&start=10 Google].

* Correctional Association of New York: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/correctional-association-new-york-general-support Open Phil]. You can cite the [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/correctional-association-of-new-york-general-support Good Ventures page] too. [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%22Correctional%20Association%20of%20New%20York%22%20site%3Anytimes.com Lots of mentions on NYT].

* Essie Justice Group: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/essie-justice-group-general-support Open Phil]. I don't think there's a lot of information about this group (yet).

* FSU Project on Accountable Justice: See [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/florida-state-university-project-accountable-justice-general-support Open Phil's writeup]. Not to be confused with the Accountable Justice Project.

* Faith in Texas: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/faith-texas-general-support Open Phil] and [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/faith-in-texas-general-support Good Ventures]. Note that because the phrase "faith in Texas" is common and search results are polluted, you will have to do some [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%22Faith%20in%20Texas%22%20%2D%22people%20of%20faith%22%20%2Dchrist%20%2D%22good%20faith%22%20%2D%22bad%20faith%22%20%2D%22Islamic%20faith%22 clever Googling] to get around that.

* Florida Rights Restoration Coalition: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/florida-rights-restoration-coalition-general-support Open Phil] and [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/florida-rights-restoration-coalition-general-support Good Ventures]. The [https://encrypted.google.com/search?hl=en&q=%22Florida%20Rights%20Restoration%20Coalition%22 Google results] are decent.

* Human Impact Partners: Organization that does research and advocacy at the intersection of public health and criminal justice reform. Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/human-impact-partners-convening Open Phil].

* JustLeadershipUSA: An organization that does advocacy to reduce incarceration. Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/justleadershipusa-close-rikers-campaign Open Phil's writeup].

* Justice Strategies: A criminal justice reform think tank in the United States. Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/justice-strategies-general-support Open Phil's writeup]. Finding information might be tricky because "justice strategies" is a common phrase.

* Legal Services for Prisoners with Children: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/legal-services-prisoners-children-general-support Open Phil's]. [https://clpp.hampshire.edu/sites/default/files/intern_reports/Jaydee%20Lee%20-%20Final%20Report.pdf This report] might be useful.

* Mijente: Some coverage [http://www.latina.com/lifestyle/our-issues/mijente-social-justice-movement here], [http://gozamos.com/2015/12/mijente-a-new-national-latinx-organization-launches-this-weekend-in-chicago/ here], and [https://medium.com/@marisa_franco/introducing-mijente-c87805785fd1 here]. Make sure to check out [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/mijente-criminal-justice-reform Open Phil] and [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/mijente-criminal-justice-reform Good Ventures] as well.

* National Association of Community and Restorative Justice: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/national-association-community-and-restorative-justice-restorative-justice-convening Open Phil]. They seem to host conferences, so make sure to mention that. Otherwise, I don't think there's a lot of information about them.

* New Virginia Majority Education Fund: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/new-virginia-majority-formerly-incarcerated-organizers Open Phil], [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/new-virginia-majority-formerly-incarcerated-organizers Good Ventures], and maybe [http://www.newvirginiamajority.org/mission_history their history page] (but it's not very good).

* Promise of Justice Initiative: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/promise-justice-initiative-general-support Open Phil] and [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/promise-of-justice-initiative-general-support Good Ventures]. Also see [http://thelensnola.org/2015/03/19/lawsuit-says-state-prison-officials-broke-law-in-discussing-executions/ this article].

* ReFrame Mentorship: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/reframe-mentorship-general-support Open Phil] and [http://www.goodventures.org/our-portfolio/grants/reframe-mentorship-general-support Good Ventures]. Maybe also [http://www.hefn.org/connect/event/the_reframe_mentorship_strategic_communications_funder_briefing this page]? There doesn't seem to be a lot about this.

* Texas Fair Defense Project: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/texas-fair-defense-project-general-support Open Phil] and [https://www.buzzfeed.com/alexcampbell/austin-illegally-jails-poor-people-lawsuit-claims this BuzzFeed article]. Maybe [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9dtTWII8DVk this video]?

* The Ordinary People Society: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ordinary-peoples-society-general-support this Open Phil grant writeup]. Also check out the pages from the [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ordinary-people-society-criminal-justice-reform March] and [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/ordinary-people-society-prodigal-child-project December] 2016 grants.

* Voice of the Ex-Offender: Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/voice-ex-offender-southern-regional-convening Open Phil], [https://tuchangemakers.tulane.edu/2013/10/04/voice-of-the-ex-offender-vote/ this page], and [https://thinkprogress.org/70-000-louisianans-cant-vote-today-c84b9abdfe90 this post].

* Youth First Initiative (might be called "Youth First! Initiative" or "Youth First" – part of your job is to figure out what the canonical naming is): Start with [http://www.openphilanthropy.org/focus/us-policy/criminal-justice-reform/youth-first-initiative-general-support Open Phil], [http://jjie.org/2015/01/22/new-campaign-seeks-to-sharply-reduce-youth-incarceration/ this article], and [https://chronicleofsocialchange.org/news-2/liz-ryan-founder-youth-first-initiative/9404 this interview].

=== Torture ===

* Pigeon torture: $25-40: A torture practice in North Korea. Trigger warning.

=== Welfare in the United States ===

* Mickey Leland Memorial Domestic Hunger Relief Act (reserved for Devansh): $50-90, dependong in article quality and length. Maybe even more!

* Food Assistance for Disaster Relief (reserved for Sean): $40-70, depending on article quality and length. Maybe even more!

* Nutrition Assistance Block Grants: $40-70, depending on article quality and length. Maybe even more!

=== Taxation ===

* Form 1098 (reserved for Charlie): $30: Want something of comparable quality to Form 1099.

Also, pages on state-level income tax returns. In general, prioritize the most populous states as listed at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._states_and_territories_by_population#States_and_territories . However, note that some states already have their own taxation pages, so be sure to check for those beforehand. Please discuss with Issa or Vipul to get individual price quotes for individual states.

=== Immigration ===

* W visa (reserved for Grigory): $125. A proposed new visa, part of various immigration reform proposals, that would be mostly a replacement for the existing H-2 visas. The high pay is mostly because understanding exactly what the proposals would do requires a deeper understanding of existing immigration law, and the politics of changing it. I'm happy to provide guidance to the person who works on this.

=== Books, orgs, and people ===

* Sheldon Richman: $35: There is already a deleted page on him. You would first need to message the admin who deleted the page to retrieve the existing version. Then work on improving/fixing it, and then republish. Probably not good as a first project. Page needs to survive for at least 30 days after recreation to be eligible for payment.

== Improvements to existing pages ==

=== Health (global and local) ===

(nothing public; but get in touch with us if you are interested in stuff to do here)

=== International development ===

* Inter-American Development Bank (poverty reduction section): $5-20: Section is currently empty. Between $5 and $20 for expanding the section, based on how much you expand it, and the quality of your expansion.
