A '''Notice of Intent to Deny''' ('''NOID''') is a notice issued by the [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]] to petitioners for residency, citizenship, family visas, and employment visas. Examples of petitions for which a RFE may be issued are [[Form I-129]] (alien worker authorization), Form I-140 (immigrant worker authorization), and [[Form I-130]] (family visas).<ref name=2005-memo/><ref name=2013-memo/><ref name=nolo>{{cite web|url = http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/how-handle-request-evidence-rfe-from-uscis.html|title = How to Handle a Request for Evidence (RFE) From USCIS. RFEs can cause anxiety and worry for immigration applicants. Learn how to act swiftly in responding to an RFE.|last = Gasson|first = Kristina|publisher = [[NOLO]]|accessdate = January 16, 2016}}</ref>

== Situations where it is used ==

The NOID is used for situations where the adjudicator (the person evaluating the petition) believes that it should be denied, but that the petitioner may have additional evidence that might lead the petition to be approved.<ref name=2013-memo>{{cite web|url = http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/2013/June%202013/Requests%20for%20Evidence%20%28Final%29.pdf|title = Policy Memorandum|date = June 3, 2013|accessdate = January 16, 2016|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]}}</ref><ref name=2005-memo>{{cite web|url = http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/Static_Files_Memoranda/Archives%201998-2008/2005/rfe021605.pdf|title = Interoffice Memorandum|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|date = February 16, 2005|accessdate = Janaury 16, 2016}}</ref> Its main use is to save the petitioner and the USCIS time and effort involved in dealing with denials (through re-petitioning or appeal).

== Response protocol ==

The NOID is accompanied by stated reasons for issuing the NOID (which, if not addressed, will be the reasons for denial) and a time within which the petitioner must respond. If the petitioner submits no response, the petition is denied. If the petitioner responds, the additional evidence is considered prior to a final decision.<ref name=nolo-gc>{{cite web|url = http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/getting-marriage-based-green-card-after-past-fraudulent-marriage.html|title = Getting a Marriage-Based Green Card After a Past Fraudulent Marriage. With marriage fraud on your record, what are the prospects of applying for a later green card based on marriage?|publisher = [[NOLO]]|accessdate = January 16, 2016}}</ref><ref name=nolo-rfe>{{cite web|url = http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/how-handle-request-evidence-rfe-from-uscis.html|title = How to Handle a Request for Evidence (RFE) From USCIS. RFEs can cause anxiety and worry for immigration applicants. Learn how to act swiftly in responding to an RFE.|last = Gasson|first = Kristina|publisher = [[NOLO]]|accessdate = January 16, 2016}}</ref>

== Related communications ==

=== Differences with RFE ===

The following are some key differences between the [[Request For Evidence]] (RFE) and NOID:<ref name=nolo-rfe/>

* ''Likelihood of denial'': The RFE is issued when there is significant uncertainty about whether the petition will be approved, whereas the NOID is generally used when a denial is quite likely.
* ''Accompanying information'': A RFE comes with a list of additional types of evidence needed. A NOID comes equipped with a list of reasons for denial. While the two lists are somewhat related (insofar as a reason for denial translates to a piece of evidence that could overturn the denial) they have different framings.
* ''Time given to respond'': The time given to respond to a RFE is generally greater than that for a NOID.

=== Differences with Notice of Intent to Revoke ===

Another communication similar to NOID is the [[Notice of Intent to Revoke]], used in cases where the USCIS has received additional evidence after approving a petition and is reconsidering it for revocation. This is often prompted by a consular officer returning the petition to the USCIS. Consular officers return petitions to the USCIS if, in the course of deciding a visa application by the beneficiary based on the petition, they come across reason to believe that the petition was based on fraud or misrepresentation.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.uscis.gov/unassigned/immigrant-visa-petitions-returned-state-department-consular-offices|title = Immigrant Visa Petitions Returned by the State Department Consular Offices|publisher = [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]]|accessdate = January 16, 2016}}</ref>

== References ==

{{reflist}}


