'''''The People of the State of California v. George W. Hall''''' or '''''People v. Hall''''', {{law report|4|Cal.|399}}, was an appealed murder case in the 1850s in which the [[California Supreme Court]] established that [[Chinese Americans]] and Chinese [[immigrants]] had no rights to testify against white citizens. The opinion was delivered in 1854 by Chief Justice [[Hugh Murray (judge)|Hugh Murray]] with the concurrence of Justice [[Solomon Heydenfeldt]].

The ruling effectively freed Hall, a white man, who had been convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of Ling Sing, a Chinese miner in [[Nevada County, California|Nevada County]]. Three Chinese witnesses had testified to the killing.

== Background ==

=== Accession of California to the United States ===

With the conclusion of the [[Mexican–American War]], the area of [[Alta California]] (which contains the modern U.S. state of [[California]] and some other states to its east) came under the control of the United States. Formally, the area was ceded to the United States as part of the [[Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo]]. In 1850, California formally joined the United States as the 31st state. Other parts of Alta California that became all or part of later U.S. states included [[Arizona]], [[Nevada]], [[Utah]], [[Colorado]], and [[Wyoming]].

=== California Gold Rush and Chinese migration to California ===

In early 1848, gold was discovered in California. This led to the [[California Gold Rush]], where people from the United States, Mexico, and China arrived at California in search of gold. Although minining was the original attraction, many Chinese moved into the cities to provide services. Although their competition in mining was not liked by the whites in California, their presence in city services was initially highly appreciated.<ref>{{cite web|url =http://www.sfmuseum.org/hist6/chinhate.html|title = The Chinese|author = Henry Kittredge Norton|accessdate = March 20, 2016}}</ref>

=== Legal background ===

Section 394 of the Act Concerning Civil Cases, passed in 1850, stated that "No black or mulatto person, or Indian, shall be allowed to give evidence in favor of, or against a white man."<ref name=cetel>{{cite web|url = http://www.cetel.org/1854_hall.html|title = THE PEOPLE, RESPONDENT, v. GEORGE W. HALL, APPELLANT. Supreme Court of the State of California, 1854.|accessdate = March 20, 2016}}</ref> As written, the Section did not appear to apply to Chinese witnesses.

Between 1849 and 1854, Chinese had made use of the California court systems, with varying degrees of success. For instance, [[Ah Toy]], a female from China who arrived at [[San Francisco]] in 1848, started a brothel in 1850, becoming the first Chinese madam operating in the United States.  She attempted to use California's court system to seek justice twice:

* She unsuccessfully sued a group of miners for paying her in brass filings instead of gold dust.<ref name=marinatimes>{{cite web|url = http://www.marinatimes.com/2012/09/a-short-history-of-bordellos-in-san-francisco-2/|title = A short history of bordellos in San Francisco, part 2. The madams behind the whole sordid business|publisher = Marina Times|date = September 1, 2012|accessdate = March 20, 2016}}</ref><ref name=sfist>{{cite web|url = http://sfist.com/2015/04/03/san_franciscos_15_greatest_infamous.php|title = San Francisco's 16 Greatest Infamous Local Legends|last = Barmann|first = Jay|date = April 3, 2015|accessdate = March 20, 2016}}</ref>
* In August 1852, she threatened to sue Yee Ah Tye, a notorious Chinese leader, for extortion, claiming that he had demanded that her prostitutes pay him a tax. Yee Ah Tye backed down, although he would later be imprisoned for other charges.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/goldrush/peopleevents/p_chinese.html|title = Chinese Immigrants and the Gold Rush|accessdate = March 20, 2016|publisher = [[PBS]]}}</ref>

== The case ==

In 1853, a California court convicted George Hall, a white man, of the murder of Ling Sing, a Chinese miner, based on the testimony of Chinese witnesses.<ref name=meloukhia>{{cite web|url = http://meloukhia.net/2011/12/laying_some_history_on_you_people_v_hall/|title = Laying Some History On You: People v. Hall|accessdate = March 20, 2016|last = Smith|first = S. E.}}</ref> George Hall appealed the verdict, arguing that the testimony of the Chinese witnesses should not be accepted and that Section 394 of the Act Concerning Civil Cases, that barried the use of testimony by blacks, mulattoes, and Indians against whites, should also be extended to banning the testimony of Chinese. The [[California Supreme Court]], in an opinion delivered by then chief justice with the concurrence of Justice [[Solomon Heydenfeldt]], sided with Hall.<ref name=cetel/><ref name=meloukhia/>

== Consequences and responses ==

The case did not make violence against Chinese ''de jure'' legal: it was still possible to convict a white person of murdering Chinese if credible white witnesses, or other reliable evidence, could be produced. However, it ''de facto'' made it much easier for whites to get away with violence against Chinese.<ref name=meloukhia/>

Ah Toy, the successful Chinese madam, closed down her brothel. While this was primarily because of the anti-prostitution laws instituted in California, it is also believed to have been motivated in part by the increased risk of harassment due to the decision in ''People v. Hall''.

In 1860, Pun Chi, a businessman from China, wrote an impassioned appeal challenging the verdict in ''People v. Hall'' and in general challenging the negative view of Chinese in California. His appeal was translated to English by the Presbyterian minister William Speer in 1870.<ref name=pun-chi>{{cite web|url = http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/6618|title = “We Chinese Are Viewed Like Thieves and Enemies”: Pun Chi Appeals to Congress to Protect the Rights of Chinese, ca. 1860|accessdate = March 20, 2016|publisher = History Matters}}</ref>

The ruling arguably paved the way for more intense white-on-Chinese [[race riot]]s, such as the [[San Francisco Riot of 1877|1877 San Francisco riot]].

==See also==
* [[Racism in the United States]]

==External links==

* [http://people.brandeis.edu/~teuber/paptop4.html Law school assignment including the lower court opinion]

[[Category:Race and law in the United States]]
[[Category:California state case law]]