The '''Priority Enforcement Program''' ('''PEP''', sometimes also called '''PEP-COMM''', '''PEP-Comm''', or '''Pep-Comm''') is a program by [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]] (ICE), the agency responsible for immigration enforcement in the interior of the United States, under the [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]] (DHS). PEP is an ICE program that works with state and local law enforcement to identify aliens (people who are not United States citizens) who come in contact with state or local law enforcement, and remove those who are removable (either because their presence is unauthorized, or because they committed an [[aggravated felony]]).<ref name=ice-pep>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/pep|title = Priority Enforcement Program|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|accessdate = June 20, 2016}}</ref><ref name=ilrc>{{cite web|url = http://www.ilrc.org/files/documents/life_under_pepcomm.pdf|title = Life under "PEP-Comm"|publisher = Immigrant Legal Resource Center|accessdate = June 24, 2016}}</ref> PEP was announced by DHS Secretary [[Jeh Johnson]] in a November 20, 2014 memo as a replacement for [[Secure Communities and administrative immigration policies|Secure Communities]] (S-COMM).<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo>{{cite web|url = https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/14_1120_memo_secure_communities.pdf|title = Secure Communities|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]|last = Johnson|first = Jeh Charles|authorlink = Jeh Johnson|date = November 20, 2014|accessdate = June 20, 2016}}</ref> It builds on an updated list of immigration enforcement priorities released in another memo by Johnson issued on the same day.<ref name=johnson-priorities-memo>{{cite web|url = https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/14_1120_memo_prosecutorial_discretion.pdf|title = Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants|date = November 20, 2014|accessdate = June 20, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]|last = Johnson|first = Jeh Charles|authorlink = Jeh Johnson}}</ref><ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/><ref name=ice-pep/><ref name=ice-enforcement-priorities>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/immigrationAction/faqs|title = Frequently Asked Questions Relating to Executive Action on Immigration|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]}}</ref>

The official rollout of the program started on July 2, 2015.<ref name=numbersusa-rollout>{{cite web|url = https://www.numbersusa.com/news/obama-administration-implements-priority-enforcement-program-limits-interior-enforcement|title = Obama Administration Implements Priority Enforcement Program, Limits Interior Enforcement|publisher = [[NumbersUSA]]|date = July 8, 2015|accessdate = June 24, 2016}}</ref><ref name=cis-rollout>{{cite web|url = http://cis.org/vaughan/concerns-about-new-priority-enforcement-program|title = Concerns About the New Priority Enforcement Program|publisher = [[Center for Immigration Studies]]|last = Vaughan|first = Jessica|date = August 5, 2015|accessdate = June 20, 2016}}</ref>

The enforcement priorities referenced in PEP are also relevant to other work by ICE as well as by [[U.S. Customs and Border Protection]] related to immigration enforcement, apprehension, detention, and removal.<ref name=ice-enforcement-priorities/><ref name=johnson-priorities-memo/><ref name=breitbart/><ref name=migrationpolicy>{{cite web|url = http://www.migrationpolicy.org/research/understanding-potential-impact-executive-action-immigration-enforcement|title = Understanding the Potential Impact of Executive Action on Immigration Enforcement|date = July 1, 2015|last = Rosenblum|first = Marc|accessdate = June 22, 2016|publisher = [[Migration Policy Institute]]}}</ref> However, PEP does not encompass these; PEP refers ''only'' to the ICE program that works with state and local law enforcement to identify and remove aliens who come in contact with local law enforcement.<ref name=ice-pep/><ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/>

== Components ==

=== Enforcement priorities referenced in PEP ===

The Priority Enforcement Program relies on updated enforcement priorities released in a November 20, 2014 memo by DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson (note that these enforcement priorities apply DHS-wide and are not limited to PEP).<ref name=johnson-priorities-memo/><ref name=ice-pep/>

* '''Priority 1''' (prioritized for removal) includes noncitizens who meet one or more of these criteria: 
** 1(a): national security threat
** 1(b): apprehended immediately at the border
** 1(c): gang member
** 1(d): convicted of an offense classified as a felony in the state or local jursdiction, other than one related to immigration status
** 1(e): convicted of a felony or [[aggravated felony]] as defined by immigration law.
* '''Priority 2''' (subject to removal) includes noncitizens who meet one or more of these criteria: 
** 2(a): convicted of three or more misdemeanors
** 2(b): convicted of a serious misdemeanor. Serious misdemeanors are defined as offenses involving domestic violence, sexual abuse or exploitation, burglary, unlawful possession or use of a firearm, drug distribution or trafficking, driving under the influence, and other crimes in which a defendant was sentenced to actual custody of 90 days or more.
** 2(c): entered the United States unlawfully after July 1, 2014
** 2(d): significantly abused visas or [[Visa Waiver Program|visa waiver programs]]
* '''Priority 3''' (generally subject to removal) includes noncitizens subject to a final order of removal issued on or after January 1, 2014.

An exception can be made to removing an alien who fits these priority categories if in the judgment of an ICE Field Office Director, CBP Sector Chief, or CBP Director of Field Operations, there are compelling  and except ional factors that clearly indicate the alien is not a threat to national security, border security, or public safety and should not therefore be an enforcement priority.<ref name=johnson-priorities-memo/>

The memo does not forbid DHS agencies (ICE and CBP) from apprehending, detaining, and removing aliens who are not in any of the three priority categories. However, resources should be dedicated to aliens in the priority categories, and the removal of any alien not identified as a priority should only be carried out if, in the judgment of an ICE Field Office director, the removal serves an important federal interest. In addition, detention should not be used for people suffering from physical and mental illness, the disabled, elderly, pregnant, nursing, or primary caretakers of children and infirm people without approval from an ICE Field Office director.<ref name=johnson-priorities/>

=== Enforcement priorities within the scope of PEP ===

Unlike its predecessor S-COMM, PEP is more limited in focus. In particular, it does not seek to take custody of individuals charged only with civil immigration offenses, or those charged, but not convicted, of criminal offenses. Rather, it is focused on priority subcategories 1(a), 1(c), 1(d), 1(e), 2(a), and 2(b) in the November 2014 immigration enforcement priority list. With the exception of 1(a) (national security threat), all the other subcategories under the aegis of PEP are directly related to criminal convictions.<ref name=pep-fact-sheet>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Fact%20sheet/2015/pep_brochure.pdf|title = Office of Enforcement and Removal Operations: Priority Enforcement Program (PEP)|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]}}</ref>

=== Immigration detainers ===

One key component of S-COMM, the predecessor of PEP, was the use of ICE detainers, where ICE sent Form I-247 detainers to state and local law enforcement agencies (LEAs) asking them to keep aliens for up to 48 hours in law enforcement custody to give ICE time to take the alien in ICE custody.<ref name=ipc-detainers>{{cite web|url = http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/immigration-detainers-comprehensive-look|title = Immigration Policy Center: "Immigration Detainers: A Comprehensive Look"|date = February 17, 2010|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[Immigration Policy Center]]}}</ref> These detainers came under criticism both for leading to unconstitutional detention<ref name=galarza-v-szalczyk/><ref name=miranda-olivares-lexisnexis/> and for the added costs borne by law enforcement agencies.<ref name=cliniclegal/> PEP replaced the I-247 detainers with three new forms:<ref name=ice-pep/><ref name=ilrc/><ref name=nilc/>

* '''Form I-247N, Request for Voluntary Notification of Release of Suspected Priority Alien''': The Form requests the local law enforcement agency to notify the ICE of the pending release from custody of a suspected priority removable individual at least 48 hours prior to release, if possible. The Form I-247N does not request or authorize the LEA to hold an individual beyond the point at which he or she would otherwise be released. Additionally, on the Form I-247N, ICE must identify the enforcement priority under which the individual falls.
* '''Form I-247D, Immigration Detainer - Request for Voluntary Action''': The Form I-247D requests the receiving LEA maintain custody of the priority individual for a period not to exceed 48 hours beyond the time when he or she would have otherwise been released from custody. On this form, ICE must identify the enforcement priority under which the individual falls, as well as the basis for its determination of probable cause. The LEA must also serve a copy of the request on the individual in order for it to take effect. While similar to the original Form I-247, the need to state probable cause, as well as the requirement that the individual be served a copy, were an attempt to address some of the constitutional concerns surrounding detainers.
* '''Form I-247X, Request for Voluntary Transfer''': This form is for enforcement priorities that do not fall under PEP. The Form I-247X requests the receiving LEA maintain custody of the priority individual for a period not to exceed 48 hours beyond the time when he or she would have otherwise been released from custody. The priority subcategories not covered by PEP, but for which ICE may otherwise seek transfer from cooperative jurisdictions are 1(b), 2(c), 2(d), and 3.

Below are some key differences between the old and new detainer policies:<ref name=pep-fact-sheet/>

* The 48-hour limit on requests to maintain custody now includes Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
* The detainer form requires that the LEA give a copy to the individual detained in order to be effective.
* Detainers are used much more rarely, and must be accompanied by probable cause in addition to a priority subcategory. The following are permissible probable causes:
** A final order of removal
** Pendency of removal proceedings
** Biometric match indicating no lawful status or otherwise removable
** Statements by the subject to an immigration officer and/or other reliable evidence
* Detainers are no longer issued simply for not having a biometric match in ICE databases. Additional evidence is needed to constitute probable cause for detention.

=== Biometric database ===

Another component of PEP is the biometric database. LEAs participating in PEP were asked to send fingerprints of arrestees to ICE. In practice, this would mean running an automated check against ICE's database, and notifying ICE's Law Enforcement Support Center in case of a match. This component of the program remained unchanged from S-COMM.<ref name=pep-fact-sheet/><ref name=ident-iafis/>

== History ==

=== Dissatisfaction with the Secure Communities program ===

{{main article|Secure Communities and administrative immigration policies}}

Secure Communities, often written as S-COMM, was an effort pioneered in 2008 under [[George W. Bush]] and launched in 2009 under [[Barack Obama]].<ref name=scomm-strategic-plan>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/foia/secure_communities/securecommunitiesstrategicplan09.pdf|title = Secure Communities; A Comprehensive Plan to Identify and Remove Criminal Aliens: Strategic Plan|date = July 21, 2009|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]], [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]]}}</ref> The effort involved seeking cooperation from state and local law enforcement authorities in the enforcement of federal immigration laws. Two key ways that cooperation was sought were:

* '''Biometric database''': The ICE and FBI had been working together to merge their fingerprint databases. Local law enforcement agencies participating in S-COMM would be asked to send any fingerprints they took of arrestees to ICE. In practice, this would mean running an automated check against ICE's database, and notifying ICE's Law Enforcement Support Center in case of a match.<ref name=ident-iafis>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/foia/sc-stats/nationwide_interoperability_stats-fy2011-feb28.pdf|title = Secure Communities: IDENT/IAFIS Interoperability|date = May 23, 2011|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]}}</ref>
* '''Detainer''': If ICE is notified that a non-citizen has been arrested for a crime, ICE may place a [[detainer]] for the person. The detainer requests the jail to hold the person for 48 hours beyond the scheduled release date, so that ICE can take custody and initiate deportation proceedings.<ref name=ipc-detainers/>

The detainers in particular were the subject of criticism as well as legal challenge. Some courts ruled that holding people using the detainers (under some circumstances) was unconstitutional. For instance:<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/>

* In ''Miranda-Olivares v. Clackamas County'', a federal magistrate judge in [[Oregon]] ruled that, when [[Clackamas County]] officials detained a woman solely on the basis of an immigration detainer, they violated her [[Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Fourth Amendment]] rights.<ref name=miranda-olivares-lexisnexis>{{cite web|url = https://www.lexisnexis.com/legalnewsroom/immigration/b/insidenews/archive/2014/04/17/ice-detainer-4th-amendment-violation-miranda-olivares-v-clackamas-county.aspx|title = ICE Detainer = 4th Amendment Violation: Miranda-Olivares v. Clackamas County|date = April 17, 2014|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = LexisNexis}}</ref>
* In ''Galarza v. Szalczyk'', the [[United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit]] ruled that [[Lehigh County]] officials had violated the [[Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Tenth Amendment]] by detaining Ernesto Galarza based on an ICE detainer after he had been granted bail after being arrested for a drug offense. Galarza was detained for more than 48 hours without notice of the basis of his detention or the ability to contest it. Three days later, immigration officials learned that he was a U.S. citizen, and he was released. The court agreed with Galarza that immigration detainers do not and cannot compel a state or local law enforcement agency to detain suspected aliens subject to removal.<ref name=galarza-v-szalczyk>{{cite web|url = http://www2.ca3.uscourts.gov/opinarch/123991p.pdf|title = Galarza v. Scalczyk|date = March 4, 2014|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref>

Other cases that would later be cited as reasons for discontinuing S-COMM include ''Morales v. Chadbourne'', ''Moreno v. Napolitano'', ''Gonzalez v. ICE'', ''Villars v. Kubiatoski'', and ''Uroza v. Salt Lake City''.<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/>

Another direction of criticism was that cooperating with the detainers imposed significant additional expenditures on state and local authorities, for which ICE did not reimburse them. This was the main stated motivation for [[Cook County]]'s decision to stop complying with ICE detainers.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://immigrantjustice.org/staff/blog/cook-county-immigration-detainers-and-real-cost-public-safety|title = Cook County, Immigration Detainers, and the Real Cost to Public Safety|author = Tara Tidwell Cullen|date = February 8, 2012|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url = https://www.wbez.org/shows/wbez-news/ice-detainers-a-public-safety-issue/52c2108c-acf2-4739-8522-d8f93799b162|title = ICE detainers a public-safety issue?|last = Mitchell|first = Chip|date = May 16, 2012|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[WBEZ]]}}</ref> Overall, S-COMM was criticized for creating mistrust between law enforcement and local communities, by adding the enforcement of immigration laws to their job.<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/><ref name=cliniclegal>{{cite web|url = https://cliniclegal.org/sites/default/files/state_localities_that_limit_compliance_w_ice_detainers_12-4-13.pdf|title = States and Localities That Limit Compliance with ICE Detainer Requests (December 2013)|publisher = Catholic Legal Immigraiton Network|date = December 1, 2013|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref> The design of PEP-COMM would in part be motivated by efforts to address these criticisms.<ref name=johnson-priorities-memo/>

=== 2011 Morton memo ===

On June 17, 2011, [[John T. Morton]], director of ICE, issued a memo on prosecutorial discretion that would subsequently be widely referred to as the "Morton memo", "2011 Morton memo", and "prosecutorial discretion memo."<ref name=morton-2011-memo>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/secure-communities/pdf/prosecutorial-discretion-memo.pdf|title = Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion Consistent with the Civil Immigration Enforcement Priorities of the Agency for the Apprehension, Detention, and Removal of Aliens|last = Morton|first = John T.|authorlink = John T. Morton|date = June 17, 2011|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]}}</ref><ref name=vox-obama-border-ice>{{cite web|url = http://www.vox.com/2015/1/29/7945249/obama-border-ice|title = Obama just picked a fight with border agents|last = Lind|first = Dara|date = January 29, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Vox (website)|Vox]]''}}</ref><ref name=ipc-morton-memo>{{cite web|url = http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/special-reports/morton-memo-and-prosecutorial-discretion-overview|title = The Morton Memo and Prosecutorial Discretion: An Overview|author = Shobha Sivaprasad Wadhia|date = July 20, 2011|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[Immigration Policy Center]]}}</ref> A second memo pertaining to prosecutorial discretion for witnesses and victims of crime was also issued on the same day.<ref name=morton-2011-memo-2>{{cite web|url = https://www.ice.gov/doclib/foia/prosecutorial-discretion/certain-victims-witnesses-plaintiffs.pdf|title = Prosecutorial Discretion: Certain Victims, Witnesses, and Plaintiffs|date = June 17, 2011|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]|last = Morton|first = John T.|authorlink = John T. Morton}}</ref><ref name=ipc-morton-memo/>

The Morton memos built on earlier guidelines on the exercise of prosecutorial discretion, but went further by providing more explicit enforcement priorities, and explicitly telling ICE agents ''not'' to pursue some classes of removable aliens in order to focus on other ones.<ref name=ipc-morton-memo/><ref name=vox-obama-border-ice/> The memos were complemented by executive action by President [[Barack Obama]] in June 2012 on [[Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals]] (DACA), which allowed people who had arrived in the United States as young children to defer their removal and made it possible for them to apply for employment authorization documents. Note that whereas the Morton memos were addressed to ICE asking it ''not'' to prosecute some classes of removable aliens, the June 2012 executive action involved creating an affirmative program, managed by [[United States Citizenship and Immigration Services]] (USCIS), to which some aliens could apply.<ref name=vox-obama-november-2014>{{cite web|url = http://www.vox.com/2014/11/16/7226621/obama-executive-action-immigration-deportations-amnesty|title = 9 facts that explain why Obama is about to help millions of immigrants|last = Lind|first = Dara|date = November 16, 2014|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref>

=== November 2014 memos by Jeh Johnson (that led to the creation of the PEP) ===

In November 2014, a number of announcements were made by the administration of then United States president [[Barack Obama]] surrounding changes to immigration enforcement. The most famous of these announcements was [[Deferred Action for Parents of Americans]] (DAPA). Like DACA, the goal of DAPA was to create an affirmative program (under USCIS) that some removable aliens could apply to in order to have their removal deferred.<ref name=vox-obama-november-2014/><ref name=ipc-obama-november-2014>{{cite web|url = http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/special-reports/guide-immigration-accountability-executive-action|title = A Guide to the Immigration Accountability Executive Action|date = March 13, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[Immigration Policy Center]]}}</ref>

While Obama's main announcements were focused on affirmative programs (and therefore under the purview of USCIS), there were also updates on the immigration enforcement side, relevant to ICE as well as to CBP. These updates were announced in the form of two memos by DHS Secretary [[Jeh Johnson]] on November 20, 2014:

* The first memo, titled '''Policies for the Apprehension, Detention, and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants''', was addressed to the heads of USCIS, ICE, and CBP. It listed a new set of enforcement priority categories and subcategories, along with some guidance on how to apply these new categories in determining whether to apprehend, detain, or remove individuals.<ref name=johnson-priorities-memo/> The memo modified some of the enforcement priorities from the 2011 Morton memo.<ref name=vox-obama-border-ice/> It would lead to updates to existing programs, field practice, and instruction manuals by ICE and CBP in subsequent months, leading to some controversy when some of the details of the new instructions leaked in January 2015.<ref name=breitbart>{{cite web|url=http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2015/01/11/exclusive-catch-and-release-2-0-leaks-highlight-teardown-of-immigration-enforcement/|title = EXCLUSIVE: Catch and Release 2.0 — Leaks Highlight Teardown of Immigration Enforcement|last = Darby|first = Brandon|date = January 11, 2015|accessdate = July 18, 2015|publisher = [[Breitbart.com]]}}</ref><ref name=ap>{{cite web|url=http://news.yahoo.com/govt-tells-immigration-agents-id-immigrants-not-deport-052424806.html?soc_src=mediacontentstory&soc_trk=tw|title = US govt tells agents to ID immigrants not to deport|last = Caldwell|first = Alicia|date= January 28, 2015|accessdate = July 18, 2015|publisher = [[Associated Press]] via [[Yahoo! News]]}}</ref><ref name=vox-obama-border-ice/>
* The second memo, titled '''Secure Communities''', was addressed to ICE and the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties. It announced the discontinuation of S-COMM and the creation of PEP as a replacement for it. The memo announced an immediate end to the I-247 detainers used as part of S-COMM and asked the ICE to come up with updated forms that would function as requests for ''notification'' rather than ''detention''.<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/> The Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties was asked to develop a plan to monitor the implementation of the program by state and local LEAs to guard against the violation of people's civil rights and civil liberties.<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/> Based on this memo, the ICE would come up with the new detainer forms (I-247N, I-247D, and I-247X).<ref name=ice-pep/><ref name=ilrc/>

=== Attempted challenge in the United States House of Representatives (January 2015)===

In January 2015, the [[United States House of Representatives]] passed a bill revoking the November 2014 executive action by President Barack Obama.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/15/us/politics/house-votes-to-revoke-legal-protections-for-millions-of-immigrants.html|title = House Measure Defies Obama on Immigrants|last = Peters|first = Jeremy W.|date = January 24, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref> One of the provisions of the bill reinstated the Secure Communities program and increased its funding.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/16/us/secure-communities-immigration-program-battle.html|title = Republicans Resist Obama’s Move to Dismantle Apparatus of Deportation|last = Preston|first = Julia|date = January 15, 2015|accessdate  = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref> However, the bill was blocked in the Senate.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/231616-immigration-bill-stalls-in-senate|title = Senate Dems block legislation reversing immigration actions|last = Bolton|first = Alexander|date = February 3, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[The Hill (newspaper)|The Hill]]''}}</ref>

=== Official rollout starting July 2015 ===

On June 12, 2015, ICE released details on the new forms (I-247N, I-247D, and I-247X) as well as a brochure providing more information on PEP.<ref name=nilc/> The information is available on the page about PEP on ICE's website.<ref name=ice-pep/>

The official rollout of the Priority Enforcement Program began on July 2, 2015, although the ICE had begun the process of implementing the program as far back as November 2014.<ref name=cis-rollout/>

As of August 2015, a month after the rollout began, many law enforcement agencies that had previously withdrawn from S-COMM were in talks with ICE and undecided about PEP. Philadelphia Mayor [[Michael E. Nutter]], who had previously scaled back cooperation with DHS in April 2014, praised DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson for taking concerns into account when designing PEP, but was still not convinced that it made sense to participate.<ref name=wapo-rollout>{{cite web|url = https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/dhs-finds-resistance-to-new-program-to-deport-illegal-immigrants/2015/08/03/4af5985c-36d0-11e5-9739-170df8af8eb9_story.html|title = DHS deportation program meets with resistance|last = Markon|first =  Jerry|date = August 3, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Washington Post]]''}}</ref> [[Cook County]] Board of Commissions [[Toni Preckwinkle]] issued a statement with a similar sentiment.<ref name=wapo-rollout/>

In October 2015, [[San Francisco]]'s city government chose not to participate in PEP, and to restrict cooperation with federal law enforcement only for people convicted of serious crimes. This continued a tradition of San Francisco as a sanctuary city since 1989.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/21/us/san-francisco-votes-to-keep-shielding-immigrants-from-deportation-officials.html|title = San Francisco Votes to Keep Shielding Immigrants From Deportation Officials|last = Holson|first = Laura M.|date = October 20, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[New York Times]]''}}</ref> 

In contrast, the [[Los Angeles County]] Sheriff Department, that had withdrawn from the 287(g) program and was generally averse to local law enforcement cooperating with ICE, is participating in PEP. In May 2015, the Board ruled to look into participating in PEP.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-ice-los-angeles-287g-20150512-story.html|title = L.A. County ends contract with ICE, then OKs future collaboration|last = Linthicum|first = Kate|last2 = Tanfani|first2 = Joseph|date = May 12, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Los Angeles Times]]''}}</ref> In September 2015, an official decision to participate in PEP was reached.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-ice-los-angeles-jails-20150922-story.html|title = Immigration agents allowed back in L.A. County jails, with limits|date = September 23, 2015|last = Linthicum|first = Kate|date =  September 23, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Los Angeles Times]]''}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.scpr.org/news/2015/09/23/54576/la-county-sheriff-s-department-will-continue-to-co/|title = LA County Sheriff's Department will continue to cooperate with immigration agents|date = September 23, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Los Angeles Times]]''}}</ref>

== Reception ==

=== Reception by state and local governments and law enforcement agencies ===
    
In the wake of the killing of Kathryn Steinle by an undocumented immigrant, police chiefs and sheriffs from jurisdictions throughout the United States signed a letter to [[Chuck Grassley]] and [[Patrick Leahy]] arguing that PEP was a good way forward for local law enforcement and DHS to cooperate without overburdening local law enforcement, and that there was no need to pass additional legislation requiring state and local cooperation with federal immigration agencies.<ref>{{cite web|url = https://immigrationforum.org/blog/chiefs-and-sheriffs-oppose-immigration-enforcement-policies-undermining-community-policing/|title = Chiefs and Sheriffs Oppose Immigration Enforcement Policies Undermining Community Policing|date = July 20, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[National Immigration Forum]]}}</ref>

Local law enforcement agencies that had participated in S-COMM are continuing to participate in PEP, whereas those that had withdrawn from S-COMM have been evaluating PEP but not made a decision either way regarding participation.<ref name=wapo-rollout/>

===Reception by civil rights, immigrant rights, and legal advocacy groups ===

The [[American Civil Liberties Union]] responded to the original Johnson memo<ref name=johnson-scomm-discontinuation-memo/> by releasing a backgrounder. The backgrounder noted that whereas PEP was a step in the right direction, the "probable cause" definition was still too loose, and insufficient to address the [[Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Fourth Amendment-based hallenge]] to S-COMM.<ref name=aclu-pep-backgrounder>{{cite web|url = https://www.aclu.org/aclu-backgrounder-dhss-discontinued-secure-communities-program-detainer-reforms-and-new-priority?redirect=immigrants-rights/aclu-backgrounder-dhss-discontinued-secure-communities-program-detainer-reforms-an|title = ACLU Backgrounder on DHS’s Discontinued Secure Communities Program, Detainer Reforms, and the New Priority Enforcement Program (PEP)|publisher = [[American Civil Liberties Union]]|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref> In June 2015, the ACLU penned an open letter to Jeh Johnson with recommendations for improving PEP. Among the recommendations in the letter was the requirement that the probable cause notices be approved by a judge (i.e., judicially determined).<ref>{{cite web|url = https://www.aclu.org/letter/letter-dhs-regarding-implementation-ices-new-priority-enforcement-program-pep|title = Letter to DHS regarding implementation of ICE's new Priority Enforcement Program (PEP)|date = June 17, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[American Civil Liberties Union]]}}</ref> ACLU's criticism of PEP was covered by the ''[[Washington Post]]'' in an article on the program's rollout.<ref name=wapo-rollout/>

The [[National Day Laborer Organizing Network]] (NDLON), that had previously been critical of S-COMM,<ref name=colorlines/> was critical of PEP, with its key concern being that the changes to the program were too cosmetic.<ref name=scpr-overview>{{cite web|url = http://www.scpr.org/blogs/multiamerican/2015/03/17/17989/will-obama-s-new-deportation-enforcement-program-b/|title = How Obama's new deportation enforcement program differs from the old one|author = Leslie Berestein Rojas|date = March 17, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[Southern California Public Radio]]}}</ref> NDLON also filed a [[Freedom of Information Act]] request to learn more about the program.<ref name=scpr-overview/><ref name=ndlon-foia>{{Cite web|url = http://ndlon.org/images/docs/PEP_FOIA_to_ICE.PDF|title = RE: Fredom of Information Act Request Regarding the Priority Enforcement Program|date = March 5, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[National Day Laborer Organizing Network]]}}</ref>

The [[National Immigration Law Center]] was also critical of PEP, citing both constitutional concerns and its effect of causing the separation of families.<ref name=nilc>{{cite web|url = https://www.nilc.org/issues/immigration-enforcement/pepnotafix/|title = PRIORITY ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM. Why ‘PEP’ Doesn’t Fix S-Comm’s Failings|date = June 30, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[National Immigration Law Center]]}}</ref> 

Angela Chan, policy director of the [[Asian Law Caucus]], said that there were alarming similarities between S-COMM and PEP, and also said that Obama's slogan of "felons, not families" should be considered in the context of many communities being overpoliced and overcriminalized.<ref name=colorlines>{{cite web|url = http://www.colorlines.com/articles/goodbye-secure-communities-hello-priority-enforcement-program|title = Goodbye, Secure Communities. Hello, Priority Enforcement Program. S-Comm has long been blasted as reaching too far. Will PEP-Comm be better?|last = Bogado|first = Aura|date = November 21, 2014|accessdate = July 3, 2016}}</ref>

The [[Immigration Policy Center]] has taken a more cautious approach, noting that PEP is an improvement over S-COMM in principle, but awaiting further details on the implementation.<ref name=ipc-obama-november-2014/>

=== Reception by groups interested in restricting immigration, particularly illegal immigration ===

Groups interested in limiting immigration and combating illegal immigration see PEP as a step backward from S-COMM, and have been critical of it. In remarks at a press conference hosted by the Texas Sheriffs Association, Jessica Vaughan of the [[Center for Immigration Studies]] (a think tank that advocates low immigration levels), said that "PEP will result in the release of even more criminal aliens back to the streets, with local communities — and especially law enforcement agencies — left to deal with the consequences." She said that ICE arrests in Texas were already down 28% from the previous year, and criminal alien arrests down 25%.<ref name=cis-rollout/>

In June 2015, the [[United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security]] released a report on PEP. Based on the report, Committee Chairman [[Bob Goodlatte]] argued that the implementation of PEP endangered communities (relative to S-COMM).<ref>{{cite web|url = https://judiciary.house.gov/press-release/goodlatte-implementation-of-priority-enforcement-program-endangers-our-communities/|title = Goodlatte: Implementation of Priority Enforcement Program Endangers Our Communities|date = June 23, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = [[House Judiciary Subcommittee]]}}</ref> The report was cited in the ''[[Washington Times]]''<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/jun/23/obama-amnesty-reaches-illegals-prisons-jails/|title = Obama extending amnesty to illegals in prisons, jails. Recognizes complaints of sanctuary cities|last = Dinan|first = Stephen|date = June 23, 2015|accessdate = July 3, 2016|publisher = ''[[Washington Times]]''}}</ref> and by [[NumbersUSA]], an advocacy group favoring low immigration numbers. Quoting from the report, NumbersUSA noted that PEP even ignored the implementation of some of the priority subcategories identified in the November 2014 memo (specifically, 1(b), 2(c), 2(d), and 3).<ref name=numbersusa-rollout/>

== References ==

{{reflist|30em}}

