== Types of aliens who appear in removal proceedings ==

There are three categories of aliens who appear in removal proceedings:<ref name=trac>{{cite web|url = http://trac.syr.edu/immigration/reports/211/include/II-06-training_course_burden_of_proof.pdf|title = Burdens of Proof in Removal Proceedings|last = Weil|first = Jack H.|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>

# Arriving Aliens (these are people who were detained while entering the United States)
# Aliens present without admission or parole
# Admitted Aliens

== Features of the hearing ==

=== Burden of proof ===

In criminal proceedings, the [[legal burden of proof]] always falls on the prosecutor, i.e., the state. However, in removal proceedings, as is the case with other administrative proceedings, the legal burden of proof may fall on either side depending on the specifics of the charges. Specifically:<ref name=trac/><ref name=lii-bop/><ref name=lawyers-bop>{{cite web|url = http://immigration.lawyers.com/deportation/burdens-of-proof-in-deportation-and-removal-actions.html|title = Burdens of Proof in Deportation & Removal Actions|publisher = Lawyers.com|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>

# Arriving Aliens: As a general rule, the Arriving Alien bears the legal burden of proof of clear admissibility to the United States. However, in the case of Arriving Aliens who have previously been granted [[Lawful Permanent Resident]] status, there is a presumpion in favor of granting them entry, with the exceptions being those aliens who satisfy one or more of the grounds of inadmissibility covered in INA Section 212. There is some legal ambiguity regarding who has the legal burden of proof here, but some legal scholars have held that the burden of proof falls on the prosecution in the case of LPRs.<ref name=trac/><ref name=lii-bop/>
# Aliens Present Without Admission or Parole: This refers to people who entered unlawfully. In this case, once the prosecution establishes that the respondent is an alien, the burden of proof is on the respondent to demonstrate that he/she is in lawful status in the United States.<ref name=trac/><ref name=lii-bop/>
# Admitted Aliens: This refers to aliens who were admitted lawfully. Here, the legal burden of proof of removability falls on the prosecution.<ref name=trac/><ref name=lii-bop/>

Regardless of the category, if the alien is claiming any relief from removal (such as asylum or [[cancellation of removal]]) the legal burden of proof for demonstrating eligibility for that relief falls on the alien.<ref name=lii-bop>{{cite web|url = https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/8/1240.8|title = 8 CFR 1240.8 - Burdens of proof in removal proceedings.|publisher = [[Legal Information Institute]]|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>
 
=== Availability of a defending lawyer ===

For [[criminal proceedings]] in the United States (and in most other countries), the state has a responsibility to provide a public defender for the accused. However, removal proceedings are not criminal proceedings, and the state does not provide a public defender or compensate the respondent for the costs of an attorney. Respondents are allowed to defend themselves without the help of an attorney.

However, most immigration courts have set up programs where ''pro bono'' (free, volunteer) attorneys are available on the day of the master calendar hearing.<ref name=nolo-lawyer-removal-proceeding>{{cite web|url = http://www.alllaw.com/articles/nolo/us-immigration/will-lawyer-be-provided-deportation-hearing.html|title = Will a Lawyer Be Provided For My Deportation Hearing? If you're facing removal (deportation), you'll probably need to hire, and pay for, your own lawyer.|publisher = [[NOLO]]|accessdate = February 11, 2016}}</ref>

The ''pro bono'' attorney helps the respondent in the following ways:

* The ''pro bono'' attorney speaks on behalf of the respondent in court.
* The ''pro bono'' attorney helps the respondent determine how to respond to each of the charges in the NTA.
* The ''pro bono'' attorney helps the respondent determine whether to claim eligibility for relief from removal (such as asylum or [[cancellation of removal]])

If the respondent's situation is complicated, the ''pro bono'' attorney may request a [[continuance]] on the respondent's behalf, so that the respondent can secure an attorney.

The ''pro bono'' attorney does not typically continue to represent the respondent for the merits hearing. Rather, the respondent is expected to find (and pay for) an attorney by that time.

=== How appeals work ===

Immigration decisions may be appealed by either side with the [[Board of Immigration Appeals]]. However, the BIA does not generally accept new evidence regarding the original case, but instead, simply aims to determine whether the previous court made an incorrect judgment based on the law or the facts available to it at that time. It is therefore critical that all the arguments and facts be presented in the original removal proceeding. BIA appeals are generally handled through paper, with physical hearings very rare.<ref name=immigration-equality-bia>{{cite web|url = http://www.immigrationequality.org/get-legal-help/our-legal-resources/immigration-equality-asylum-manual/28-board-of-immigration-appeals/|title = 28. Board of Immigration Appeals|publisher = Immigration Equality|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>

Beyond the BIA, decisions may be appealed in the [[United States courts of appeals|United States court of appeals]] for the jurisdiction where the removal proceeding was held. There is more flexibility regarding the sort of evidence that may be presented in these appeals but the court generally focuses on whether the original BIA decision was made correctly based on the information available, rather than re-adjudicating the facts involved.
