<!-- Please do not remove or change this AfD message until the issue is settled -->
{{Article for deletion/dated|page=Scott Stanford (investor)|timestamp=20161123022258|year=2016|month=November|day=23|substed=yes}}
<!-- Once discussion is closed, please place on talk page: {{Old AfD multi|page=Scott Stanford (investor)|date=23 November 2016|result='''keep'''}} -->
<!-- End of AfD message, feel free to edit beyond this point -->
'''Scott Stanford''' is the cofounder & Managing Partner at [[Sherpa Capital]], a venture capital firm that partners with the most promising emerging technology-enabled companies. He is also cofounder of [[SherpaFoundry]], which provides trusted advice and guidance to select corporations and entrepreneurs to galvanize ideas and elevate assets.<ref name="Crunchbase" />

==Early Life and Education==
He taught himself to code at age 13, and built and ran a dial-up BBS. He obtained his BA (in Social Studies) from Harvard in 1993.<ref name="LinkedIn">{{cite web |url=https://www.linkedin.com/in/scstanford |title=Scott Stanford |newspaper=LinkedIn |date=  |author= |accessdate= February 27, 2016}}</ref> He obtained his MBA from Harvard in 1998.<ref name="Crunchbase">{{cite web |url=https://www.crunchbase.com/person/scott-stanford#/entity |title=Scott Stanford - Co-Founder & Managing Partner @ Sherpa Capital |newspaper= |date=  |author= |accessdate= March 6, 2016}}</ref>

==Career==

From 1993 to 1996, Stanford was a Financial Analyst with the Communication, Media and Entertainment Investment Banking Group of [[Goldman Sachs]].<ref name="LinkedIn" />

From 2004 to 2013, he headed [[Goldman Sachs]]' Global Internet Investment Banking business as a Managing Director. While there, he helped lead the [[Series B]] round to invest in [[Uber (company)|Uber]] (along with [[Shervin Pishevar]] of [[Menlo Ventures]]).<ref name="TC">{{cite web |url=http://techcrunch.com/2014/12/05/early-uber-investors-shervin-pishevar-and-scott-stanford-raising-250m-sherpaeverest-fund/ |title=Early Uber Investors Shervin Pishevar And Scott Stanford Raising $250M For SherpaEverest Fund |newspaper=Techcrunch.com |date=  |author= |accessdate= February 27, 2016}}</ref>

He left Goldman Sachs in 2013 to cofound (with [[Shervin Pishevar]]) a venture capital firm SherpaVentures (later becoming Sherpa Capital) and associated startup foundry SherpaFoundry.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://gigaom.com/2013/02/10/shervin-pishevar-is-leaving-menlo-vc-to-start-sherpa-a-startup-foundry/|title = Shervin Pishevar of Menlo VC to start Sherpa, a startup foundry|date = February 10, 2013|accessdate = July 18, 2015|publisher = ''[[GigaOm]]''|last = Malik|first = Om|authorlink = Om Malik}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://allthingsd.com/20130210/menlo-ventures-pishevar-and-goldmans-stanford-to-found-sherpa-a-startup-aimed-at-making-new-startups/?utm_source=Twimbow&utm_medium=twitter|title = Menlo Ventures’ Pishevar and Goldman’s Stanford to Found Sherpa, a Startup Aimed at Making New Startups|last = Swisher|first = Kara|publisher = ''[[AllThingsD]]''|date = February 10, 2013|accessdate = July 18, 2015}}</ref> SherpaFoundry intends to funds and assets from a number of strategic corporations, and help from some well-known entrepreneurs, to create new companies.<ref name="TCFebruary2013">{{cite web |url=http://techcrunch.com/2013/02/10/sherpa/ |title=Menlo's Shervin Pishevar And Goldman's Scott Stanford Leave Their Day Jobs To Do Something Really Vague, By Design |newspaper=Techcrunch.com |date=  |author= |accessdate= March 3, 2016}}</ref> SherpaVentures is the corresponding fund that invests in those new companies that have been created. Many of these investments in companies that are part of the on-demand economy, including startups like Munchery, Shyp, Washio, and Pro.com.<ref name="TCFebruary2013" />

In June/July 2014, SherpaVentures completed raising its first round of $150 million in financing from limited partners.<ref name=sherpaventures-150m>{{cite web|url=http://techcrunch.com/2014/07/16/sherpaventures-150m/|title = Shervin Pishevar And Scott Stanford’s SherpaVentures Closes $150 Million For Its First Fund|date = July 16, 2014|accessdate = July 18, 2015|publisher = ''[[TechCrunch]]''|last = Lawler|first = Ryan}}</ref>

In December 2014, Stanford and Pishevar announced that they were seeking $250 million for a new fund called SherpaEverest that would make investments in later stage companies.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://techcrunch.com/2014/12/05/early-uber-investors-shervin-pishevar-and-scott-stanford-raising-250m-sherpaeverest-fund/|title = Early Uber Investors Shervin Pishevar And Scott Stanford Raising $250M For SherpaEverest Fund|last = Lawler|first = Ryan|date = December 5, 2014|accessdate = July 18, 2015|publisher = ''[[TechCrunch]]''}}</ref>

He is a board member of [[Shyp]] and [[BackOps]].<ref name ="Crunchbase" />

==References==
{{Reflist}}

[[Category:American venture capitalists]]
[[Category:Harvard Business School alumni]]
[[Category:Harvard University alumni]]
[[Category:San Francisco]]
