# Succession plan

This is a succession plan for the `contractwork` GitHub repository,
the associated tasks that get reflected as updates to this repository,
and the associated website https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/ in the
event of Vipul Naik's death or permanent incapacitation.

This is currently a draft document.

## Exit options for contract workers in case of Vipul Naik's death or incapacitation

### Simple exit option

This simple exit option is offered to all workers. The goal of this
exit option is to simplify administration for Vipul Naik's estate and
to give the contract work time and a financial buffer to find
alternative sources of income.

The key features of the exit option:

* Vipul Naik's estate has the following due to the contract worker:
  whatever Vipul Naik originally had due to the worker (as recorded in
  the worker file in
  [contributor-lists](https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/contributor-lists/))
  plus the amount the worker had earned as income for Vipul Naik in
  the calendar year preceding Vipul Naik's death (see "Total money
  earned as income", just the "for Vipul Naik" part, in the worker
  file's section for the year preceding Vipul Naik's death). The
  latter component is effectively a form of "severance pay" of about a
  year's worth of contract work.

  If the
  amount Vipul Naik had due to the worker is negative, i.e., Vipul
  Naik has an advance payment, the magnitude of this advance payment
  is to be subtracted from the "Total money earned as income" in the
  preceding calendar year to determine the estate's liability.

* Any payments due that are not yet finalized in the contractwork
  repository (i.e., they have not been incorporated into the payments
  due) are no longer eligible for consideration.

* The worker has no obligations to Vipul Naik or his estate to
  complete any contract work tasks (outside of separate agreements
  entered that specifically talk of obligations beyond Vipul Naik's
  death).

As of 2023-11-04, the two active workers for Vipul Naik, and the only
ones with income in the preceding calendar year) are Issa Rice
([worker
file](https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/contributor-lists/issa-list.mediawiki))
and Sebastian Sanchez ([worker
file](https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/contributor-lists/sebastian-sanchez-list.mediawiki)). Sebastian
Sanchez is also earning out his Future Fund Regranting Program money;
that money is *not* part of this exit option.

### Continuation option

If a suitable person is found to continue the administration of
contract work from Vipul Naik's estate, and the worker is interested
in doing so, the worker may elect to continue contract work for Vipul
Naik. If the worker picks this option, the worker forgoes the
additional severance pay of 1 year (however, it is possible that the
continuation option offers a mix of wrap-up for a few years and a
little severance pay after that).

Vipul Naik is working on the preparation of suitable potential
continuation options; however, there is no guarantee that a
continuation option will be available upon Vipul's death, so workers
should not expect or plan for such an option to be available.

## Administration of funds from other payers managed by Vipul Naik

By default, the administration of funds from other payers will revert
to the payer whose funds are being administered. If funds have already
been transferred to Vipul Naik as an intermediary, Vipul Naik's estate
will refund the payer.

As of 2023-11-04, the only other payer for whom work is going on is
the Future Fund Regranting Program. The original granting entity (the
FTX Future Fund) no longer exists, and the money has already been paid
out to the worker (Sebastian Sanchez); the only thing left is for him
to earn out the money.

In this case, since the grant was recommended by Pablo Stafforini,
administration of the grant should be inherited by Pablo
Stafforini. Specifically, this means that Pablo Stafforini will review
work funded by the grant and make payment decisions.

If Vipul Naik's digital successor is interested, willing, and able, to
continue updating the contractwork repository to reflect Pablo
Stafforini's payment decisions, the contractwork repository can be
used for this purpose. Otherwise, Pablo Stafforini should use the
latest state captured from the contractwork repository and keep track
of the remaining payments using his own choice of system.

## Repository

### Existing data should not be removed, but further updates are up to the discretion of Vipul Naik's digital successor

See
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-access-to-your-personal-repositories/maintaining-ownership-continuity-of-your-personal-accounts-repositories#about-successors)
for the full list of options available for repositories to digital
successors on GitHub.

The contractwork repository includes important payment information
regarding the contract work done, and there is value in preserving
this information. It is up to Vipul Naik's digital successor whether
to manage thhe recording of further updates, including the execution
of the exit options or continuation options, within this repository
(by transfering ownership and then pushing commits) or through other
means.

Similarly, in the case of funds for other payers, such as the example
of the Future Fund Regranting Program, it is up to the other payer or
grant administrator, in conjunction with Vipul Naik's digital
successor, to decide whether to use the contractwork repository for
the ongoing administration.
