List of SurveyMonkey Contribute surveys I have taken.

== Surveys I was disqualified from ==

* Something about whey protein consumption, but I said no, I haven't consumed it, and was disqualified after the first question. September 24, 2016.

* What sort of foods I buy. I only checked yogurt, and was disqualified. October 1, 2016.

== Surveys I opted out of ==

* A recruitment for a study that I declined. September 24, 2016.
* Something on sports figure Shaquille O’Neill endorsing apparel. So it asked me first about apparel and then about sports figures and then about Shaquille. Had a LOT of questions where I was forced to select an option but none applied, so I did "report a problem" and left the survey. September 24, 2016.
* Something on smartphones and their effect on vacation stress. I did "report a problem" that "Survey does not relate to me" and left. September 24, 2016.
* A survey on US voting. I had to opt out again, explaining that I am not a US citizen. September 24, 2016.
* A survey asking for my thoughts on an alcohol + sugar beverage. #TargetingFail so I opted out of that too. September 24, 2016.

== Surveys I finished == 

* Something about travel and booking hotels, hostels, and Airbnb. Although a lot was inapplicable to me, the survey was designed well enough that I had N/A options throughout (I would otherwise have opted out). Good job, Airbnb or whoever made it! September 24, 2016.
* A a survey on a Healthy Living app that was pretty nice, they showed me a bunch of screenshots and then asked for whether I’d participate and I said no and offered reasons. September 24, 2016.
* A cute "It will be all right" script on a mother who reassures her kid that it will be all right at various points in his life, and later when the kid leaves home for college he reassures his mom. awwww, cute! They just wanted my reaction to it and said it might be part of an ad. September 24, 2016.
* Influencer survey that tries to figure out what influences my purcase decisions. They were really interested in the role of pop stars and Internet personalities, as revealed late in the survey. October 1, 2016.