This page explores ways for the people managing a website to use analytics tools to better understand the profile of website visitors.

This page focuses more on how to interpret, benchmark, and act upon the data. The procedural aspects (i.e., how to view the data in analytics providers) are not the focus of the page. However, we include information on the availability of the data in analytics tools such as Google Analytics (GA) and Quantcast Measure (QM). A third source you might use to get data is Facebook Insights (FBI): the Insights section of the official Facebook page for your website. FBI includes gender, age, and location data of the people who have liked your site.

This guide is focused on understanding users "in real life" rather than their on-site behavior. In particular, we focus on gender, age, and location, three dimensions that can be tracked using GA, QM, and FBI, and for which reasonably reliable general data is available for many sites through QM. However, some of our general guidelines also apply to other metrics not explicitly discussed, including language, interests, race, education level, income level, marital status, and political affiliation.

== Steps ==

=== Understanding your setup ===

# The why: Understand your purpose behind understanding your website audience. Some possible motivations are discussed below.
#* Identifying changes to make to your site's content (articles, videos, products), style, and user flow. While demographic and interest data are potentially useful, the most valuable information here is actual user behavior on the site, which is not the focus of this guide. Nonetheless, the analysis presented here can be useful, at least as a sanity check. For instance, if you have a website that deals with news in California, but it is getting most of its traffic from Illinois, then that is concerning and might lead you to reimagine or rethink how you are presenting your website content and how you are promoting or advertising it.
#* Identifying external advertising or promoted content (not affiliated directly with your site) to show to users, to better monetize your site. Demographic and interest data help you identify things you can show to your users that are relevant to them, even if not directly connected with your site. For instance, if your site is visited by many college students, showing ads for cheap college textbooks or study notes sites might make sense, even if your site is a music site. Conversely, an academic site targeted at college students may be a great place to advertise non-academic products targeted at college students.
#* Identifying ways of marketing your site or product offsite, e.g., through social media, search engine optimization, search ads, display ads, or real-life advertising. Once again, demographic and interest data are helpful because they help you understand where to find potential new visitors, customers, or community members.
# The how: Understand the different ways that the information might be inferred and how this affects the reliability of the data.
#* Note that all analytics services in widespread use work by sending data through Javascript to third-party websites, and use cookies (first-party for tracking a user within a site, and third-party for tracking users across sites) to identify users. In particular, ''no data'' is collected for users who have either disabled Javascript ''or'' have an adblocker on that blocks analytics tools. uBlock is an adblocker that defaults analytics tools as listed in the EasyPrivacy list, including GA.<ref name=easyprivacy>[https://easylist.github.io/easylist/easyprivacy.txt AdBlock Plus EasyPrivacy list]</ref><ref>[https://github.com/chrisaljoudi/uBlock/issues/465 EasyPrivacy enabled by default]</ref> Moreover, if the user has disabled cookies, or is using incognito/private browsing or a different browser or device, the user may not be correctly identified and the user's activity may not be properly connected together.
#* Some information, such as language, location, network, operating system, and browser, is implicitly collected from the environment in which the user interacts with the website.
#* Some information is inferred from the user's entire web activity, tracked using third-party cookies. Interests are typically inferred this way; other data (including demographic data) may also be inferred this way when not present in a more reliable form. This information is missing or inaccurate on browsers (such as Safari) where third-party cookies are mostly disallowed,<ref>[http://clubrunner.helpserve.com/Knowledgebase/Article/View/710/277/enable-third-party-cookies-for-safari Enable Third Party Cookies for Safari]</ref> as well as for users using most adblockers.
#* Some information is explicitly entered by the user, such as information that users enter into their Facebook or Google profiles. While generally the most reliable, this does depend on trusting the user to enter the data accurately (in most cases, this information is not verified by third parties). Google offers a hybrid solution for ad customization: it infers interest data automatically from browsing behavior but also allows logged-in users to edit their interests manually.<ref name=google-ads-preferences>[https://www.google.com/settings/u/0/ads/authenticated?hl=en Control your Google ads. You can control the ads that are delivered to you based on your Google Account, across devices, by editing these settings. These ads are more likely to be useful and relevant to you.]</ref>
# The what: Understand the dimensions along which you'd like to get user data. One key consideration in identifying dimensions is the typical dimensions used by analytics providers and advertisers. These may not exactly match your goals, but they may be the best you can get. The following dimensions are typically used when people think of user profiling. Their availability in different analytics tools is indicated parenthetically.
#* Language (available in GA): GA reads language from the user's browser as the user's language of first preference. Data may not reflect the user's actual language of interest.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2013/02/12/languages-report-google-analytics/ Languages Report in Google Analytics]</ref> Languages are specified using two- or four-letter codes.<ref>[http://searchenginewatch.com/sew/how-to/2269346/google-analytics-language-report-what-you-can-learn-about-your-visitors Google Analytics Language Report: What You Can Learn About Your Visitors]</ref><ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2010/11/15/google-analytics-language-codes/ Some Google Analytics Language Codes]</ref>
#* Location (available in GA and QM down to the level of city): GA infers location from the user's IP address, but does not display actual IP addresses to protect privacy.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2013/03/19/locations-report-google-analytics/ The Locations Report in Google Analytics]</ref> Location data may be incorrect for users using a VPN or a mobile browser (such as Opera Mini) where page requests are handled server-side.
#* Network: This is inferred from the user's IP address.<ref>[http://www.lunametrics.com/blog/2008/12/15/network-location-google-analytics/ Using Network Location in Google Analytics]</ref> This may be incorrect for users using a VPN or a mobile browser (such as Opera Mini) where page requests are handled server-side.
#* Operating system and browser: This is inferred from the user agent string used by the browser. This is generally accurate, except in cases where the user is running an emulator or virtual machine that emulates a different browser or operating system.<ref>[https://www.petroglyphcreative.com/blog/2014/browser-os-from-analytics Who's looking at you? Browser/OS from Google Analytics]</ref>
#* Gender and age (available in GA if activated; available in QM): This is collected only if you as a website owner opt in. You need to first upgrade Google Analytics to enable remarketing and advertising features,<ref name=ga-remarketing>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2444872 Enable Remarketing and Advertising Reporting Features in Google Analytics]</ref> then turn on demographics and interest reports.<ref name=demographics-and-interest-reports>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2819948?hl=en Enable Demographics and Interests reports]</ref> Google Analytics joins user data with the following three data sources to identify users: the third-party DoubleClick cookie (DoubleClick, also known as the Google Ad Exchange, is a display advertising network owned by Google), the Android Advertising ID (for apps on Android devices), and the iOS Identifier for Advertisers (for apps on iOS devices). Of these three, the only one relevant to web activity is the DoubleClick cookie.<ref name=data-collection>[https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2954071 Demographics and Interests data collection and thresholds]</ref>
#* Interests (in-market segments and affinity categories) (available in GA if activated; available in QM): As with gender and age data, interest data is available only if you as a website opt in by first enabling remarketing and advertising features and them turning on demographics and interest reports.<ref name=ga-remarketing/><ref name=demographics-and-interest-reports/>
#* Highest education level completed or currently pursuing (not available in GA; available in QM)
#* Income level (not available in GA; available in QM)
#* Race/ethnicity (not available in GA; available in QM)

=== Being aware of statistical and ethical framework and pitfalls ===

# Understand the concepts of composition and index.
#* For any dimension (such as age, gender, ethnicity, income bucket) we can consider the ''composition'' of your website visitors based on that dimension. For the simplest example, gender, the composition of your website visitors by gender will read something like "45% male, 55% female." Composition data is available in GA and QM for any dimension that is being tracked.
#* Another idea related to composition is that of the ''index'' (as Quantcast calls it).<ref name=quantcast-index>[https://www.quantcast.com/help/guides/reading-our-reports/ Reading Our Reports]</ref> The index becomes relevant when the overall sizes of the populations for various values of the dimension are different. For instance, in the United States, African-Americans constitute 13% of the population. Thus, a website that gets 26% of its traffic from African-Americans is overrepresented among them (also known as "over-indexed"), even though they are still a minority of users. The index is essentially the ratio of the composition among website visitors to composition in the overall population, so in this case it is 200. An index above 100 means the subpopulation is over-indexed, whereas an index less than 100 means the subpopulation is under-indexed.
#* Unlike composition, that can be inferred purely based on the visitors to the website, the index requires the use of data for a general population. Moreover, the index can be different depending on what general population we use for benchmarking. For instance, for a local news website for a city, do we use the population of the city, or the population of the country, or world population? Do we restrict to people with Internet access, or to all people? 
#* Note that for large subpopulations, the index has a ceiling effect. For instance, non-Hispanic whites in the United States are 62% of the population, so even if a website gets 100% of its traffic from Caucasians, the index is still only 161. On the other hand, for a subpopulation that is only 5% of the whole population, the index could be as high as 2000.
#* The distinction between index and composition is less important when looking at gender, especially in developed countries, because the number of men and women using the Internet is almost equal.
# Keep in mind that composition and index are both ''relative'': neither measure how popular the site is on the whole with various subpopulations.
#* The composition is a measure of the ''relative'' proportion from different subpopulations. The index is a similar measure, but adjusting for overall population sizes.
#* For instance, a website can have a 95% male audience (so a male index of about 190), and yet be popular among a negligible minority of males. On the other hand, another website can have only a 30% male audience, and yet be visited by many more males, because it has way more ''overall'' traffic.
#* Put another way, changes to the composition may be in a direction opposite to changes in absolute numbers. For instance, if a website suddenly becomes popular in a forum visited mostly by females, the overall traffic from both males and females could go up, with the proportion of males going down.
# Keep in mind the feedback loop between how you promote your website and what audience it attracts. If you (intentionally or unintentionally) make your website more visible or prominent to some subpopulations, that will be reflected in the statistics. This could create a feedback loop: you advertise your website to a subpopulation, they use it more, and you focus your energies more on the subpopulation. There are three ways of identifying and countering this feedback loop.
#* Filter for traffic with referral sources or channels where you know you are not introducing any bias.
#* Use the population distribution in the channels that you are attracting traffic from as the baseline relative to which you index your site's visitors. For instance, if you are advertising your site on a forum where the audience is 70% female, and yet only 60% of the visitors from that forum are female, that might be an indication that your website appeals ''less'' to females, even though a majority of your site visitors are still female.
#* Restrict attention to visitors who are highly engaged (for instance, based on a threshold of number of pages viewed) or repeat visitors. Compare the composition of highly engaged or repeat visitors against the composition of all visitors.
# Keep in mind that the composition of your websites represents not just what you are doing on your site but also truths about people's preferences, society, and culture. You can change what you do on your site (in terms of content or advertising) but your influence on society and culture are likely to be small to begin with.
# For benchmarking, ompare your website against example websites that match it as closely as possible along the most relevant criteria. 
#* Since websites do not usually share their GA data, your best option for getting good benchmarks is Quantcast data. You can access Quantcast data for a website by typing in quantcast.com/domainname (you can exclude initial "www." from the domain name). Many websites do not use QM. Others use QM but make only some of the data visible to the public. You should scroll down to the section on demographic data to see if the website has allowed for sharing the information.
#* Quantcast data is available for most websites on the Stack Exchange Network. Therefore, looking for the closest site on the Stack Exchange network to your site can provide some insight. However, Stack Exchange sites are Q&A sites and traffic patterns to Q&A sites differ from those to other sites covering the same topics. The adjustments for different demographic dimensions are discussed at more length.
#* In order to better understand whether GA and QM data might diverge for sites like yours, you could turn on QM on your own site for a while and then compare that data against GA data for your own site. If the two are in agreement, then the numbers are likely to be reliable for other websites in your category.

=== Understanding the gender composition and index of your website ===

# Classify your website along a few broad criteria.
#* One of the most important determinants of expected gender composition of a website is the topic or domain of the website. Domains range from heavily female-overindexed (such as cooking and fashion) to somewhat female-overindexed (celebrity news, pop culture, and feel-good stories) to somewhat male-overindexed (politics news and technology) to heavily male-overindexed (hardcore technology, gaming and sports).
#* A second determinant of gender composition is the format of presentation. This is a little tricky to understand because there are a number of mutually cancelling factors at play. As a general rule, a website based around transactions (such as a question-and-answer website) or impersonal discussion (such as an online topic-focused discussion forum) is indexed more on males, whereas a website centered around social interaction (in particular, sharing) would be indexed more on females, ''holding'' the underlying topic constant. Another general rule is around imagery: pictures of scantily clad women predict more male use, whereas all other kinds of pictures (including pictures of women that are intended to highlight their dresses or particular fashion choices, but also pictures of food) are more indexed on females. While these observations can be verified directly using QM data for a lot of websites (as documented below), there is also direct survey evidence based on survey data collected by the Pew Research Center, including data on Facebook use,<ref>[http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/02/03/6-new-facts-about-facebook/ 6 new facts about Facebook], Aaron Smith, Pew Research Center, February 3, 2014</ref> Reddit use,<ref>[http://www.pewinternet.org/2013/07/03/6-of-online-adults-are-reddit-users/ 6% of Online Adults are reddit Users], Maeve Duggan and Aaron Smith, Pew Research Center, July 6, 2013</ref> social media use,<ref>[http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/08/28/men-catch-up-with-women-on-overall-social-media-use/ Men catch up with women on overall social media use], Monica Anderson, Pew Research Center, August 28, 2015</ref> and overall Internet use.<ref>[http://www.pewinternet.org/2005/12/28/how-women-and-men-use-the-internet/ How Women and Men Use the Internet], Deborah Fallows, Pew Research Center, December 28, 2005</ref>
#* The reasons for these disparities by gender are difficult questions of social science. It is not, however, necessary for you to fully understand the reasons. The exception might be cases where you are explicitly trying to cater to a countercultural niche.
# Compare your website's gender composition against benchmarks and against common sense. Quantcast data on gender for large websites is generally reliable and agrees with Google Analytics data where both are available, so you can use QM data for other websites to benchmark. The gender compositions of websites by category are described below.
#* Perhaps the most extreme gender ratios are seen on websites in the Stack Exchange network for technology communities, with the proportion of males ranging from 90% to 97%. This is because these websites combine two attributes favoring males: they are about technology and programming topics, where males are overrepresented, and they use the Q&A format, which seems to elicit more participation from males.<ref name=quantcast-stackoverflow>[https://www.quantcast.com/stackoverflow.com Quantcast report for Stack Overflow, the flagship site of the Stack Exchange network]</ref><ref name=quantcast-serverfault>[https://www.quantcast.com/serverfault.com Quantcast report for Server Fault, a site on the Stack Exchange network]</ref>
#* Sports news and hardcore gaming websites tend to be heavily male-overindexed, with the proportion of users that is male usually higher than 80% and possibly even higher than 90%.<ref name=quantcast-rantsports>[https://www.quantcast.com/rantsports.com Quantcast report for Rant Sports]</ref><ref name=quantcast-twitch>[https://www.quantcast.com/twitch.tv Quantcast report for Twitch.tv]</ref><ref name=quantcast-mmorpg>[https://www.quantcast.com/mmorpg.com Quantcast report for MMORPG]</ref>
#* Pornography websites tend to be male-overindexed, but not as heavily as you might naively think. For instance, leading pornography website Pornhub estimates that 24% of their visitors in 2015 were female, and also expects that the percentage of females viewing porn will increase over time.<ref name=pornhub-2015-in-review>[http://www.pornhub.com/insights/pornhub-2015-year-in-review Pornhub’s 2015 Year in Review]</ref>
#* Real-time politics news websites tend to get around 75% to 85% of their traffic from males. This may be attributed partly to the sports-like nature of politics news, and partly to the fact that males are overrepresented in sectors such as politics and government lobbying where people need to keep track of real-time news.<ref name=quantcast-thehill>[https://www.quantcast.com/thehill.com Quantcast report for The Hill, a political news site focused on the United States federal government]</ref><ref name=quantcast-politico>[https://www.quantcast.com/politico.com Quantcast report for Politico,  a political news site focused on the United States federal government]</ref><ref>[https://www.quora.com/Why-does-it-seem-like-women-are-less-interested-in-politics-than-men Why does it seem like women are less interested in politics than men?]</ref>
#* Websites covering political and policy news tend to be male-overindexed, though generally less so than the heavily real-time-focused ones. The percentage of males varies between 65% and 85%. The male skew tends to increase with the heterodox nature of the political and policy positions espoused by the website. For instance, policy-focused news and analysis website Vox is 70% male,<ref name=quantcast-vox>[https://www.quantcast.com/vox.com Quantcast report for Vox]</ref> whereas ''Reason'', a libertarian magazine, is 84% male.<ref name=quantcast-reason>[https://www.quantcast.com/reason.com Quantcast report for Reason, a libertarian magazine website]</ref> Conservative news sites also tend to be more heavily male, partly driven by the bias towards older people and the fact that among older age groups, Internet use is more heavily male.<ref name=quantcast-dc>[https://www.quantcast.com/dailycaller.com Quantcast report for The Daily Caller]</ref><ref name=quantcast-drudge-report>[https://www.quantcast.com/drudgereport.com Quantcast report for The Drudge Report]</ref> However, even liberal sites, like Talking Points Memo, can be quite overindexed on males.<ref name=quantcast-tpm>[https://www.quantcast.com/talkingpointsmemo.com Quantcast report for Talking Points Memo]</ref><ref name=quantcast-dailykos>[https://www.quantcast.com/dailykos.com Quantcast report for Daily Kos]</ref>
#* Science and technology news websites tend to be moderately male-overindexed, with the percentage of audience that is male being between 65% and 85%. Both the science/technology aspect and the news aspect tend to bias in favor of males, though neither bias is very strong.<ref name=quantcast-venturebeat>[https://www.quantcast.com/venturebeat.com Quantcast report for VentureBeat] (VentureBeat is a technology website that focuses on reporting venture deals)</ref><ref name=quantcast-phys>[https://quantcast.com/phys.org Quantcast report on phys.org, a science news website]</ref><ref>[https://www.quantcast.com/technologyreview.com Quantcast report for Technology Review]</ref><ref>[https://www.quantcast.com/sciencealert.com Quantcast report for Science Alert]</ref>
#* Humor websites tend to be between 65% and 80% male, even when the humor is not particularly gender-specific.<ref name=quantcast-theonion>[https://www.quantcast.com/theonion.com Quantcast report for The Onion]</ref><ref name=quantcast-collegehumor>[https://www.quantcast.com/collegehumor.com Quantcast report for CollegeHumor]</ref><ref name=quantcast-thechive>[https://www.quantcast.com/thechive.com Quantcast report for The Chive]</ref>
#* Mainstream news websites such as CNN and MSNBC are between 60% and 70% male.<ref>[https://www.quantcast.com/msnbc.com Quantcast report for MSNBC]</ref><ref name=quantcast-cnn>[https://www.quantcast.com/cnn.com Quantcast report for CNN]</ref> However, see the next bullet point.
#* News/commentary websites that are explicitly female-focused can have anywhere between 50% and 70% audiences. An example is Jezebel.<ref name=quantcast-jezebel>[https://www.quantcast.com/jezebel.com Quantcast report for Jezebel]</ref>
#* Academic websites at the early college or lower level tend to be somewhat over-indexed on females (with a composition of somewhere between 55% and 65% females, though it can vary a bit based on the choice of subject).<ref name=quantcast-studymode>[https://www.quantcast.com/studymode.com Quantcast report for StudyMode, a study help website]</ref><ref name=quantcast-algebra>[https://www.quantcast.com/algebra.com Quantcast report for Algebra.com, a study help website]</ref><ref name=quantcast-enotes>[https://www.quantcast.com/enotes.com Quantcast report for ENotes, a study help website]</ref> Note, however, that for websites covering more advanced topics, the gender composition will skew in the direction of the overall gender composition of people studying those advanced topics. Also, Q&A sites, such as those on the Stack Exchange network, tend to be more heavily male.<ref name=quantcast-math-stackexchange>[https://www.quantcast.com/math.stackexchange.com Quantcast report for the Math Stack Exchange]</ref><ref name=quantcast-biology-stackexchange>[https://www.quantcast.com/biology.stackexchange.com Quantcast report for the Biology Stack Exchange]</ref>
#* Celebrity news, entertainment news, and light-hearted entertainment websites tend to be moderately female-overindexed, with the percentage of audience that is female being between 50% and 80%. An example is NBC.com, that is about 60% female.<ref name=quantcast-nbc>[https://www.quantcast.com/nbc.com Quantcast report for NBC]</ref> Another example is Soompi, an English-language website focusing on the happenings in South Korean drama, that trends 80% female.<ref name=quantcast-soompi>[https://www.quantcast.com/soompi.com Quantcast report on Soompi]</ref> However, a celebrity news site that focuses more on pictures of scantily clad women, or semi-pornographic material, and less on gossip will tend to be more male-overindexed. For instance, a website such as The Chive or Uproxx will be male-overindexed,<ref name=quantcast-thechive/><ref name=quantcast-uproxx>[https://www.quantcast.com/uproxx.com Quantcast report for Uproxx]</ref> whereas a more BuzzFeed-like website (such as Upworthy or LifeBuzz) will be female-overindexed.<ref name=quantcast-lifebuzz>[https://www.quantcast.com/lifebuzz.com Quantcast report for LifeBuzz]</ref><ref name=quantcast-upworthy>[https://www.quantcast.com/upworthy.com Quantcast report for Upworthy]</ref>
#* Food consumption websites (not focused on recipes or cooking) can range anywhere from even (50% for each gender) to moderately female overindexed (70% female) depending on the type of content.<ref name=quantcast-eater>[https://www.quantcast.com/eater.com Quantcast report for Eater.com]</ref><ref name=quantcast-yelp>[https://www.quantcast.com/yelp.com Quantcast report for Yelp]</ref><ref name=quantcast-eat24>[https://www.quantcast.com/eat24.com Quantcast report for eat24]</ref>
#* Cooking and home furnishing sites are likely to be heavily female-overindexed, usually somewhere between 70% and 90% female. The style of the site is an important determinant in how extreme the female skew is.<ref name=quantcast-apartment-therapy>[https://www.quantcast.com/apartmenttherapy.com Quantcast report for Apartment Therapy, a home improvement website]</ref><ref name=quantcast-thekitchn>[https://www.quantcast.com/thekitchn.com Quantcast report for The Kitchn, a recipe website]</ref><ref name=quantcast-ohsheglows>[https://www.quantcast.com/ohsheglows.com Quantcast report for Oh She Glows, a vegan recipe website]</ref>
#* Fashion, style, and beauty sites are likely to be very female-overindexed, with the proportion varying between 70% and 90%.<ref name=quantcast-refinery29>[https://www.quantcast.com/refinery29.com Quantcast report for Refinery 29, a fashion website]</ref><ref name=quantcast-thezoereport>[https://www.quantcast.com/thezoereport.com Quantcast report for The Zoe Report, a female-focused fashion and style website]</ref>
# Keep in mind the relative size of the male and female population in your target location and age group.
#* In the United States, the number of male and female Internet users is approximately equal, so for the US as a whole, no adjustment needs to be made. However, in some other countries, such as India, Internet users tend to be disproportionately male (the skew could be partly misleading because of the use of shared computers between family members, that are registered in the name of a male member).<ref>[http://www.statista.com/statistics/272438/gender-distribution-of-internet-users-in-india/ Distribution of internet users in India as of October 2015, by gender]</ref> In this case, rather than just looking at the percentage of users by gender, it is more helpful to look at this percentage adjusted for the overall percentage of Internet users. Quantcast's reports do so and call it an "index"<ref name=quantcast-index/> but Google Analytics does not report this number directly.
#* Different age groups might have different gender distributions of Internet users. In particular, younger age groups are likely to have a closer-to-equal gender ratio, whereas older age groups are more likely to skew male. However, this can vary by location so it's best to look up the data in your target audience.

=== Understanding the age composition and index of your website ===

# The main thing to keep in mind with age is that composition and index can paint quite different pictures.
#* One reason is that a lot of Internet use is concentrated among people between the age of 18 and 34. Therefore, if you look at composition alone, you are likely to see that most of your site's users are within age buckets in this range. On the other hand, index (relative to active Internet useres) can paint a different picture.
#* Another reason that index is more robust than composition is that the age buckets tend to be of different sizes, both age buckets used in the same analytics tool and age buckets across analytics tools. Therefore, even aside from the fact that people use the Internet to different extents at different ages, the comparison is not a fair one.
# Compare your website's age composition against benchmarks and against common sense. Quantcast data on websites that have it available can be good for obtaining benchmarks.
#* In general, a site that is intended to target a workplace need is likely to be most over-indexed among populations of working age. Similarly, a site that is intended to target a student need is likely to be the most over-indexed among student populations. The age bucket with the highest indexing depends heavily on the occupation and the age structure of people in that work occupation or for that topic and level of study. Even subtle differences in specialty can lead to significant differences in the age composition. For instance, StackOverflow and ServerFault are both sites on the Stack Exchange network targeted at people in the technology sector. However, whereas StackOverflow is most heavily indexed in the 25-34 age group, ServerFault is most heavily indexed in the 35-44 age group. This reflects the somewhat greater age (possibly because of the requirement of more experience) of the target audience of ServerFault.<ref name=quantcast-stackoverflow/><ref name=quantcast-serverfault/> Similarly, algebra.com, Math Stack Exchange, and MathOverflow are all sites that cater to academic mathematics, but the different levels of the subject that they deal with lead to them being most over-indexed in different age groups (< 18, 18-24, and 25-34 respectively).<ref name=quantcast-algebra/><ref name=quantcast-math-stackexchange/><ref name=quantcast-mathoverflow>[https://www.quantcast.com/mathoverflow.net Quantcast report for MathOverflow, a mathematics Q&A site for research-level mathematics problems]</ref>
#* Politics news sites tend to be indexed higher on older age groups, with the indexing being highest on the 65+ age group. This includes news sites that report on politics news,<ref name=quantcast-politico/><ref name=quantcast-thehill/> and it also includes conservative politics news and discussion sites.<ref name=quantcast-dc/><ref name=quantcast-drudge-report/> However, even liberally slanted politics news and discussion sites, that are not targeted at a younger audience ''per se'', are over-indexed on older age groups.<ref name=quantcast-tpm/><ref name=quantcast-dailykos/> The greater interest in politics might partly reflect older people using the Internet less for other purposes (including work, study, outdoors activities, and pop culture).
#* Sports sites tend to be most popular among middle-aged groups, specifically the 35-44 age group.<ref name=quantcast-rantsports/>
#* Gaming sites tend to be most popular among younger age groups (< 18 or 18-24).<ref name=quantcast-twitch/><ref name=quantcast-mmorpg/>
#* Food consumption websites (not focused on recipes and cooking) are most over-indexed for the 25-34 age group and then the 35-44 and 18-24 age groups.<ref name=quantcast-eater/><ref name=quantcast-yelp/>
#* Cooking and home improvement websites are most over-indexed for the 25-34 age group and then the 35-44 and 18-24 age groups.<ref name=quantcast-apartment-therapy/><ref name=quantcast-thekitchn/><ref name=quantcast-ohsheglows/>
#* The popularity of celebrity news and entertainment sites among different age groups depends on a variety of factors. Those associated with brand names that are relatively old, and covering segments of celebrity news and entertainment that are more mainstream and established, tend to be a little more popular among middle-aged and older groups. In contrast, those dealing with newer forms of entertainment, or entertainment in other countries, tend to be more popular among younger age groups. For instance, the indexing of NBC by age group increases steadily till the 55-64 bucket,<ref name=quantcast-nbc/> whereas Soompi (an English-language website about the South Korean drama scene) and HipHopEarly (a hiphop website) are indexed most heavily in the 18-24 age goup.<ref name=quantcast-soompi/><ref name=quantcast-hiphopearly>[https://www.quantcast.com/hiphopearly.com Quantcast report for HipHopEarly]</ref>
#* Fashion, style, and beauty websites tend to be mostly overindexed toward the younger age groups (< 18, 18-24, 25-34). A typical serious, no-nonsense fashion site would be most over-indexed in the 25-34 age group.<ref name=quantcast-refinery29/><ref name=quantcast-thezoereport/> Sites targeted at younger audiences tend to be less exclusively focused on fashion but tend to mix fashion advice with other advice related to sex, relationships, and coming of age.<ref name=quantcast-gurl>[https://www.quantcast.com/gurl.com Quantcast report for Gurl]</ref>

=== Understanding the geographic location of your website's readers ===

# When it comes to city-level data, concentrate on only the top cities by composition.
#* Unless your website gets a really huge amount of traffic, the data for cities other than the top few would be too noisy and unreliable. As a general rule of thumb, the number of top cities to consider can vary from 10 (for a moderately popular website that gets 1,000 or more pageviews a day) to 100 (for a very popular website that gets millions of pageviews a month). Also, use as large a date range as possible.
#* ''Within'' these top cities, control for the city's population (i.e., use composition rather than index) where possible. Quantcast uses the term ''affinity'' rather than index when reporting data for cities. The main difference between affinity and index is that whereas index is reported as being out of 100 (so an index of 100 means that the website is as popular with the sub-demographic as it is with the whole demographic, affinity is reported out of 1.
#* If examining your website's data using Quantcast, click on "View Details" to see all the values (affinity, composition, and index) for each of the global cities.
#* To get a sense of how well your top cities match the top cities in the world, you can use various lists of top cities and metropolitan areas. Depending on the analytics tool you are using, it might count all traffic from the metropolitan area (outside the city proper) as traffic from the city, or it might not.<ref>[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_metropolitan_areas_of_the_United_States List of metropolitan areas of the United States], Wikipedia</ref><ref>[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_United_States_cities_by_population List of United States cities by population], Wikipedia</ref><ref>[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cities_proper_by_population List of cities proper by population], Wikipedia</ref><ref>[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_metropolitan_areas_by_population List of metropolitan areas by population], Wikipedia</ref>
# For country-level data, concentrate on the top countries by population.
#* Use the "View Details" view to get more information on the top countries, including the affinity, composition, and uniques.
#* After identifying the top countries, use the affinity metric to control for population and get an idea of the countries where your content is most popular per capita.
# Use some general heuristics to benchmark the locations where your website's traffic should be coming from.
#* Websites whose topic of interest is specific to a particular region (for instance, covering local news, or local celebrities, or general stuff but mostly applicable within a narrow cultural context) the traffic to the website will be concentrated in that region.
#* In general, the language in which a website's content is presented affects the geographical regions where it is likely to be used. For instance, English websites will be more widely used in English-speaking countries. ''However'', this effect is less pronounced in cases where the topic deals with a particular niche (such as programming) where the userbase is international and English is the ''lingua franca'' of global communication.
#* For websites that focus on content relevant to people in particular occupations, the cities with the largest number of people in those occupations are likely to send the most traffic to that website. Similarly, the cities with the largest ''proportion'' of people in those occupations are likely to have the largest affinity for the website.
#* One rule of thumb is that in the United States, urbanization levels for high-skilled professions are lower than in Asian countries. In other words, you are likely to find people in small towns in the United States engaged in high-skilled professions. In contrast, in South and East Asia as well as Russia, almost all the people in high-skilled professions are concentrated in the cities or university towns. This means that it could well be the case that India, China, or South Korea has a lower affinity for a website than the United States does, but the top ''cities'' in these countries have a much higher affinity than the top cities in the United States.
# Compare your website's top countries and cities against the top countries and cities of other websites of the same kind, using the following general rules based on the website's domain.
#* Technology Q&A sites tend to have fairly global audiences, and (interestingly) report extremely high composition and index in a few Indian cities (Bangalore, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, and to a lesser extent, Delhi), Seoul (South Korea), Moscow (Russia), Hong Kong, Singapore, London, Shanghai, and San Francisco. Although major global cities such as London and New York City also contribute a large share of users, their affinity is relatively lower and for some sites, even lower than 1.<ref name=quantcast-stackoverflow/><ref name=quantcast-serverfault/>
#* Educational websites are a little trickier to predict. Some of them have global appeal, whereas others appeal only within specific territories, even if their content is global in principle. In general, websites that cater to people at lower education levels are likely to have more regionally limited appeal (because education at lower levels is more constrained by linguistic and cultural barriers, and minor differences in syllabi and notation, and there is also a larger plethora of online resources in different languages). Thus, for instance, the top cities for algebra.com (focused on middle-school and high-school mathematics) are all in the United States,<ref name=quantcast-algebra/> whereas those for Math StackExchange and MathOverflow are more global in nature.<ref name=quantcast-mathoverflow/><ref name=quantcast-math-stackexchange/>
#* Politics news websites have high affinity with the regions whose politics are the focus of the sites. Sites that cover global news, such as CNN, have a fairly global audience, although they are still concentrated more in the countries where they originated.<ref name=quantcast-cnn/> In contrast, a site such as Politico<ref name=quantcast-politico/> or Talking Points Memo,<ref name=quantcast-tpm/> which is almost exclusively focused on United States politics, gets most of its readers from the United States. At the city level, the capital city would have the highest affinity among all cities (in the United States, this is Washington, D.C.).<ref name=quantcast-tpm/><ref name=quantcast-politico/><ref name=quantcast-thehill/> For global news websites such as CNN, capital cities across the world, as well as city-states such as Singapore, would have the highest affinity.<ref name=quantcast-cnn/>
#* For websites with coverage of restaurants, New York City, Seattle, Boston, and San Francisco tend to have the highest affinity among major cities. Since the cities other than New York City has a small population, it still ranks quite low in composition. The greater affinity of Seattle, Boston, and San Francisco may be explained by their greater ethnic diversity as well as their role as tech hubs, with a lot of the food-focused websites built by technology companies collaborating with restaurants.<ref name=quantcast-eat24/><ref name=quantcast-eater/> The older the site, the less heavy its affinity for new, tech-savvy cities.<ref name=quantcast-allmenus/>
#* The appeal of fashion websites tends to be quite region-specific. For instance, a fashion website such as Refinery29 or the Zoe Report gets the majority of traffic from the United States (this is also one reason that fashion websites that aim for international audiences need to maintain different versions for the audiences in different regions). In general, fashion websites tend to have higher affinity on cities, even cities (such as Los Angeles) where most other websites have low affinity. However, the affinity is related more to income levels (and therefore more in cities with higher median incomes) than it is to our conception of how much the region has an interest in fashion (thus, for instance, San Francisco has a much higher affinity than Los Angeles).<ref name=quantcast-thezoereport/><ref name=quantcast-refinery29/>
=== Understanding the education level of your website's readers ===

# Keep in mind a few caveats regarding education level.
#* Note that the education level referred to is the ''current or most recently completed education level''. In particular, it does not refer to the likely eventual level of educational attainment. This means that care should be taken when interpreting the education level and it should not be confused with scholastic ability.
#* When looking at education level for websites primarily targeted at people in the 25-34 or older age groups, education level is a reasonable proxy for eventual educational attainment. However, it may still not be a proxy for scholastic ability, knowledge, or intelligence. Many countervailing factors need to be considered. One that is particularly important is that older people are likely to have lower levels of educational attainment, holding their other characteristic constant. This is because going to college or graduate school was less necessary, and therefore less common, than it is now.
#* Google Analytics does not provide information regarding education level, because it is not able to identify the education level of a user with sufficient accuracy most of the time.<ref>[https://www.en.advertisercommunity.com/t5/Reports/Google-Analytics-Demographics-Education/td-p/525048?nobounce Google Analytics Demographics - Education]</ref>
# Compare the education level of your website against those in its category.
#* For websites targeting people at particular educational stages, the education level associated with that stage will tend to dominate. As a general rule, however the education level of peopel accessing an educational website will tend to be a little higher than the target education level. (enotes is weird?)
#* Even websites not directly targeted based on educational stage, websites that are most frequented by young people (like gaming websites) will be most over-indexed on no college education.
#* For websites targeted at specific professions, the most over-indexed education level will be the education level of the upper half of people in that profession.<ref name=quantcast-stackoverflow/>
#* As a general rule, education level is a strong predictor of the extent to which people will use the Internet to acquire ''information''.<ref name=pew-wikipedia-users>[http://www.pewinternet.org/2007/04/24/wikipedia-users/ Wikipedia users, Pew Internet report]</ref> Thus, websites that are centered around providing information (Q&A websites, how-to guides, educational notes websites, news websites, even cooking, home improvement, and fashion websites) will be more indexed on higher education levels.<ref name=quantcast-ohsheglows/><ref name=quantcast-mathoverflow/><ref name=quantcast-eater/><ref name=quantcast-refinery29/><ref name=quantcast-yelp/><ref name=quantcast-cnn/> On the other hand, websites centered around providing entertainment (such as Buzzfeed-style listicles, celebrity gossip, or music for enjoyment) will be more indexed on lower education levels.<ref name=quantcast-soompi/><ref name=quantcast-lifebuzz/><ref name=quantcast-hiphopearly/><ref name=quantcast-gurl/> There are, however, exceptions: some forms of entertainment might be a little more highly indexed on more educated populations because of the nature of content.<ref name=quantcast-nbc/><ref name=quantcast-upworthy/> Websites that provide "infotainment" (a mix of information and gossip) can have mixed profiles: for instance, they may be most over-indexed on people with a college education, but under-indexed both among "no college" and "graduate school" people.<ref name=quantcast-uproxx/>


== References ==

<references/>