== Current and proposed migration laws/bureaucracy ==

=== New pages ===

* B visa in lieu of other visas: Discuss B visa in lieu of H-1B, B visa in lieu of L visa, etc. Also mention discontinuance of B visa in lieu of student visas (forcing people to use M and F visas instead)

Purpose: Helps solidify my understanding of the surrounding space to the H-1B

Priority: High

Status: In progress

* W visa: Discuss this visa, that is part of some proposed immigration reform. Discuss the role of CGD and other players in shaping the potential visa. Compare with H-2B.

Purpose: Be better able to comment on grants to CGD, also on low-skilled immigration stuff to US in general

Priority: High

Status: Started reading

* Academic Training, the analogue for J-1 visas of Optional Practical Training. $150 for a page with comparable detail to that for the current page on Optional Practical Training.

Purpose: Complete my understanding of student/scholar visas and the options available on such visas

Priority: Low

Status: Not started

* H-1A visa

Purpose: Provide a better understanding of "all" the H-1 visas

Priority: Low

Status: Not started

* H-1C visa

Purpose: Provide a better understanding of "all" the H-1 visas

Priority: Low

Status: Not started
=== Improvements to existing pages ===

* Immigration Innovation Act of 2015: How I need to improve it: Discuss more of its provisions, where and how it got stuck. Also discuss criticism by John Miano of CIS.

Purpose: Help readers (and me) get a better understanding of various current proposals and where they stand.

* F visa: Add more data on current usage patterns, by country, education level, and university, for initial I-20s, F visas issued, entries at ports, etc.

Purpose: Background research for my posts on the student visa. Also, helps readers better understand how the F visa is used in practice.

* Form I-94: Explain more clearly things like:

** Issuance at port of entry versus deferred inspection site
** Paper versus electronic Form I-94
** Form I-94W for VWP
** USCIS Form I-94


== Migration history ==

=== New pages ===

Court cases:

* Nishimura Ekiu v. United States

* Chew Heong v. United States

* Lem Moon Sing v. United States

* Knauff v. Shaughnessy

* The 1953 case (from list of US immigration laws)

* Singh v. Clinton (potentially outsourcable)

* Henderson v. New York City

Laws:

* Foreign Miners' Tax Act

* Carriage of Passengers Act of 1855

* Improve list of US immigration laws

* Make sure each law links to others

* Links between court cases (after creating new ones)