''''Voluntary return''', also known as '''administrative voluntary departure''',  is a process where somebody who is in [[removal proceedings]] and scheduled for a hearing before an immigration judge chooses to return to his or her home country, and in return, the [[U.S. Department of Homeland Security]], after making sure that the person actually departs the United States, makes sure not to put a removal order in the person's immigration record.<ref name=nolo>{{cite web|url = http://www.alllaw.com/articles/nolo/us-immigration/voluntary-departure-deportation.html|title = Voluntary Departure: Why "Volunteer" to be Deported? If you're facing removal from the U.S. (deportation) and have no means of defense, you may request voluntary departure to avoid some future immigration consequences.|publisher = [[NOLO]]|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref><ref name=cpvisa>{{cite web|url = http://www.cpvisa.com/article_2.html|title = VOLUNTARY DEPARTURE OR REMOVAL: IS THERE ANY DIFFERENCE?|last = Pierce|first = Curtis|last2 = Marot|first2 = John Eric|publisher = CPVisa.com|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>

==Types of voluntary return ==

There are various types of voluntary return:

* Voluntary return at a port of entry or at the border, by an Arriving Alien (seeking admission to the United States). This requires the consent of the alien as well as the [[U.S. Customs and Border Protection]] officers handling the alien.
* Voluntary return while in [[removal proceedings]] prior to the hearing. This requires the consent both of the alien and the [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]] officers handling the alien.
* Voluntary return at the first appearance in court for removal proceedings, i.e., during the Master Calendar Hearing. This requires the consent of the alien as well as the Immigration Judge (IJ).
* Voluntary return at the conclusion of the removal proceedings, after the alien has been found removable. This requires the consent of both the alien and the IJ, and the alien needs to satisfy more requirements to be allowed to depart voluntarily at this stage.

=== Voluntary return at a port of entry ===

If [[U.S. Customs and Border Protection]] believes that an Arriving Alien is not admissible to the United States, then there are three ways for the Arriving Alien to return:<ref name=asianjournal>{{cite web|url = http://asianjournal.com/immigration/expedited-removal-withdrawal-of-application-for-admission-and-voluntary-return/|title = Expedited removal, withdrawal of application for admission and voluntary return|publisher = Asian Journal|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>

* An order of [[expedited removal]] against the alien. In this case, all the consequences associated with a removal order apply to the alien, including, in most cases, a 5-year re-entry bar. This does not require consent from the alien; however, if the alien claims to be eligible for asylum, then a [[credible fear]] interview must be arranged.
* The alien chooses Withdrawal of Application for Admission. This is a discretionary option offered by CBP sometimes, and needs to be agreed to both by CBP and by the alien. The alien could then re-apply for admission to the United States without any blemish on his or her immigration record. This option is usually offered if the CBP officers believe the alien made a genuine mistake and may in fact be admissible if he or she applied properly, for instance, by getting a more appropriate visa, or filing Form I-192.<ref>{{cite web|url = http://www.borderimmigrationlawyer.com/withdrawal-of-application-for/|title = Withdrawal of Application for Admission|last = Murphy|first = Sarah|publisher = Border Immigration Lawyer|accessdate = February 12, 2016}}</ref>
* The alien undergoes voluntary return. This is a discretionary choice for the CBP. While this does not create a bar to re-entry, it differs from a withdrawal of application in that there is a record of the application for admission being ''denied'' rather than ''withdrawn''.

Previously, a fourth method called the "turn-around", was common at non-designate ports of entry (such as land or sea borders), whereby the alien was simply physically obstructed from entering the United States. Border turn-arounds are rarer now and have been replaced by the options above.<ref name=asianjournal/>

=== Voluntary return while in removal proceedings prior to the hearing ===

This form of voluntary return is used after the alien has been given a Notice to Appear (NTA) for removal proceedings, along with a list of charges against the alien. At this point, the responsibility for the alien falls with [[U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement]]. In some cases, ICE may detain the alien at a detention center. In other cases, the alien may be free on parole but still required to show up for the court hearing.

ICE may discretionarily offer the alien the option of voluntary return. From the perspective of ICE, the reasons for offering this option could include:<ref name=cis-deportation-basics>{{cite web|url = http://cis.org/deportation-basics|title = Deportation Basics|last = Reasoner|first = W.D.|date = July 1, 2011|accessdate = February 

* Reducing the backlog of immigration cases
* Cutting down on the costs of detaining or monitoring aliens waiting for their hearing

From the perspective of the alien, the main reason to accept voluntary return is:

* It does not carry with it the penalties associated with a removal order. 
* It allows the alien to reunite with family and avoid the perils of being detailed and in unlawful status.
* It prevents the alien from accumulating additional days of unlawful presence.

However, it is important to note that if an alien is voluntarily returned at this stage, unlawful presence accrued up to that point is part of the alien's immigration record, and may create bars to re-entry depending on the length of unlawful presence. In particular, if the alien believes that his or her presence was not unlawful, ''or'' the alien believes that he or she may be eligible for some relief from removal (such as [[cancellation of removal]] or asylum) ''or'' may be eligible for [[Adjustment of Status]] despite unlawful presence (for instance, through the [[Legal Immigration Family Equity Act]]), then voluntary departure could be a bad choice from the alien's perspective. This is because these forms of relief or adjustment of status are only available if the alien is physically present in the United States.<ref name=nolo/>

Another option offered to some aliens, that is sometimes confused with voluntary return, is [[stipulated removal]]. Stipulated removal means that the alien is removed prior to the hearing, and requires the consent of both the alien and the Immigration Judge. However, unlike voluntary return, stipulated removal carries with it all the penalties associated with a removal order, including a five-year re-entry bar and the possibility of [[reinstatement of removal]] upon subsequent re-entry.<ref name=nolo-sr-v-vd>{{cite web|url=http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/will-agreeing-stipulating-deported-protect-noncitizens-future-immigration-possibilities.h|title = Will agreeing (stipulating) to be deported protect a noncitizen's future immigration possibilities? Be careful what you're agreeing to -- a stipulated removal is a far worse option than voluntary departure.|last = Kacou|first = Amien|accessdate = July 28, 2015}}</ref>

=== Voluntary return during the Master Calendar Hearing ===

During the Master Calendar Hearing (the first day of the alien's appearance before the IJ) the alien may request to depart voluntarily. The Immigration Judge can decide whether to grant this request.<ref name=nolo/>

=== Voluntary return at the conclusion of court proceedings ===

Here, the IJ allows the alien to depart voluntarily after concluding, at the end of the court proceedings, that the alien is indeed removable. This form of voluntary return is the hardest to obtain. In order to be eligible for this, the alien must:<ref name=nolo/>

* have been present in the U.S. for at least one year
* produce the required travel documents
* show the financial means to depart
* have been a person of good moral character for the previous five years, and
* post a bond in an amount set by the immigration judge.

== Reception ==

=== Reception by immigration rights and lawyers' groups ===

=== Reception by groups advocating for more restrictive immigration policies and stronger enforcement ===


== References ==

{{reflist}}
