# Sebastian Sanchez: contract work ramp-up hopes

As described in
[sebastiian-sanchez-timelines-wiki-contract-work-reduction-proposal.md](sebastian-sanchez-timelines-wiki-contract-work-reduction-proposal.md),
Sebastian's work on timelines is being reduced gradually, with a goal
of bringing it down to 75 hours per month in November 2020. This page
describes other planned activities that we hope to increase with the
recovered time, and the challenges with each.

The eventual hope for hours distribution is something like this:

* [Donations list website (DLW)](#donations-list-website-dlw): 10 to
  30 hours a month; extra pay of $5/hour above stipend, can be
  adjusted upward as Sebastian gets more efficient at the work
* [Org Watch (OW)](#org-watch-ow): 5 to 25 hours a month; extra pay of
  $5/hour above stipend, can be adjusted upward as Sebastian gets more
  efficient at the work  
* [Cap-exempt timelines](#cap-exempt-timelines): To be determined
  November 2020 or so
* [Subwiki](#subwiki): Up to Sebastian; stipend details to be
  determined; conscious effort deferred to 2021

## Donations list website (DLW)

The [donations list website
repo](http://github.com/vipulnaik/donations) requires ongoing work,
mostly the addition of new documents and donations. Some of this work
requires a lot of contextual knowledge, that Sebastian may not
possess. However, Sebastian can do many parts of the work without the
deep contextual knowledge.

In total, Vipul hopes that Sebastian can spend between 10 and 30 hours
per month on DLW, at a pay rate of $5/hour (on top of stipend). As
Sebastian becomes more efficient, the pay rate for this work can be
increased.

There will be three streams of work that Vipul anticipates.

### Entering new documents data and submitting a pull request weekly for Vipul

One idea is for Sebastian to keep close tabs on various sourcee lists
for content, such as the EA Forum, LessWrong, Inside Philanthropy,
etc. and add them to the documents list in a GitHub branch, then
submit a pull request weekly from that branch to master. Vipul can
review the pull request, add or augment information as suitable, then
merge it in and update the live sitee. The most likely modifications
Vipul will make will be to the notees.

The advantage of this approach is that it helps DLW stay reasonably
up-to-date. Vipul would still need to spend time on the more
contextually heavy work, but that can be done less frequently.

### Entering Open Phil donation information and submitting a pull request weekly

This is similar to the idea for documents information, but it is
centered around donation information for Open Philanthropy. Since
donations have more metadata and are trickier to handle, this may need
a bit more iteration.

### Making updates to historical documents when updating related timelines or doing related research

For instance, while working on the timeline of an organization,
Sebastian might add corresponding historical documents to DLW, as a
pull request.

## Org Watch (OW)

In total, Vipul hopes that Sebastian can spend between 10 and 30 hours
per month on OW, at a pay rate of $5/hour (on top of stipend). As
Sebastian becomes more efficient, the pay rate for this work can be
increased.

There will be two streams of work that Vipul anticipates.

### Entering new documents data and submitting a pull request weekly for Issa/Vipul

The idea here is similar to the corresponding idea for DLW.

### Updating information on people for organzations

Issa will need to train Sebastian on how to do these updates.

## Cap-exempt timelines

Another idea is to create a class of timelines that we exempt from
monthly caps on number of hours. These will include timelines of a
fresh type, that we want to explore, or that are strategically
important. Vipul's view is that we should defer the exploration of
cap-exempt timelines for after some initial ramp-up on DLW and OW is
done, and regular work on timelines is down to 75 hours.

Examples of potential cap-exempt timelines: timeline of cryptocurrency
and philanthropy, timeline of malaria at GiveWell, timeline of civil
disobedience.

## Subwiki

Unfortunately, subwiki will need more thinking and strategy work, and
Vipul expects to really have time for that work only in 2021. But some
exploratory subwiki time till then is fine.