This is a list of contributors with pay, as well as some overall summary statistics, for payments made to people for writing and editing Wikipedia articles. The fact of disclosure is also noted on the contributors' talk pages on Wikipedia. A full list of articles for which contributors were paid, and the money they were paid, is at the links for individual contributors.

Note that as of August 2016, all contributor payments come from Vipul Naik's personal funds. There is no sponsorship or collaboration from the subjects of the articles, or even any other third parties. Feedback and editorial influence are provided primarily by Vipul Naik and Issa Rice, with occasional feedback from other editors and individuals who are shown the pages.

In some cases, the subjects of articles may be contacted with drafts to run by and detect factual errors, but any suggestions or feedback they have is incorporated only if verified from publicly available reliable sources.

If the funding situation changes, this page will be updated. Full details on co-sponsors, their contribution, and their editorial influence, will be included.

== List of contributors ==

Click on the links to get more details of each worker.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/akc-list.mediawiki Alex K. Chen]: Recruited in 2015; he has been working steadily with a specially negotiated deal that has minimum output requirements but additional pay based on pageviews and flexibility to create pages in addition to those that receive guaranteed payment. Has recruited other workers.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/issa-list.mediawiki Issa Rice]: Recruited in 2015; work picked up in 2016. Also manages other workers, does underlying research and outreach.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/ethan-list.mediawiki Ethan Bashkansky]: Recruited in 2016. Plays a key role in recruiting other workers.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/sebastian-sanchez-list.mediawiki Sebastian Sanchez]: Recruited in April 2016 after the EA Forum blog post http://effective-altruism.com/ea/w5/looking_for_wikipedia_article_writers_topics/ -- already a friend of Vipul. Did solid work in May. Vacation in June, expected to return in July. Current focus: global health, but not necessarily the only focus in the long term.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/jesse-list.mediawiki Jesse Clifton]: Recruited in April 2016 after the EA Forum blog post http://effective-altruism.com/ea/w5/looking_for_wikipedia_article_writers_topics/ Likely to work for a few months before starting graduate school. Sole focus: animal welfare. Steady output since recruited.

* [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/adrian-list.mediawiki Adrian Ulloa]: Recruited in August 2016 through in-bound interest (he contacted us via email).

* High school/early college students recruited by Ethan: [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/amy-list.mediawiki Amy Zhang], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/avi-list.mediawiki Avi Glozman], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/chris-list.mediawiki Chris Kunin], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/eddy-list.mediawiki Eddy Su], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/michael-list.mediawiki Michael Royzen], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/sean-list.mediawiki Sean Yu], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/devansh-list.mediawiki Devansh Dwivedy]. Note that there are many others who have not yet finished a page and are therefore not included.

* Others recruited: [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/thomas-list.mediawiki Thomas Foster], through Alex K. Chen, and [http://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/charlie-list.mediawiki Charlie Corner], through [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/linchuan-list.mediawiki Linchuan Zhang].

* People not working on Wikipedia, but who have lists in this repo for other purposes: [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/milo-list.mediawiki Milo King] (economics wiki http://market.subwiki.org), [https://github.com/vipulnaik/working-drafts/blob/master/contributor-lists/sebastian-list.mediawiki Sebastian Nickel] (deferred for now)

== Total money spent by month ==

Grand total: Somewhere between $2850 and $4650 per month, median estimate $3400. In addition, $1250 per month deferred pay for Issa.

Note that payment has been less in all actual months so far, because not everybody has been at work together (notably, Sebastian Sanchez was away in June when we got the new recruits). But we expect July to be a bigger work month. Also, we expect to keep getting new recruits.

* Alex K. Chen: Payment handled annually, but approximately $100 per month for pageview-based payment, and approximately $250 to $500 for new page creation.

* Issa Rice: Approximately $800 per month on piece work (can vary from $600 to $1200), plus guaranteed retainer pay ($250 out-of-pocket, plus $1250 deferred), plus 10% or 15% commission on workers other than Sebastian, Jesse, and AKC (AKC payment is handed annually). Commission works out to about $50 per month.

* Ethan Bashkansky: Not working actively of late. Commission on recruits works out to about $50 per month.

* Sebastian Sanchez: Approximately $800 per month on piece work (can vary from $600 to $1200).

* Jesse Clifton: Approximately $800 per month on piece work (can vary from $600 to $1200).

* High school/college recruits by Ethan: Hard to give a clear figure yet. However, approximately $350 on all of them combined in June. Many were onboarding, and expect to output more in the next month. But others might drop off. However, Ethan is aggressively recruiting new folks, so I expect payments on this front to rise, at least in July.

* Thomas Foster: Likely to not work regularly.

* Milo King and Sebastian Nickel: Currently unclear, Milo will probably be between $100 and $300 per month but probably only for the summer. Sebastian Nickel is not currently active.

== Impact ==

=== Pageviews ===

The pageviews for each worker can be accessed on [http://wikipediaviews.org Wikipedia Views]. Links for individual workers are on their pages; however, you can also use the tag dropdown on the site to find the necessary information yourself.

As a rough estimate, pages whose creation was funded through this project get over 50,000 pageviews a month on desktop devices. If you also include pages created by Alex K. Chen for which Vipul is paying on a pageview basis, the number exceeds 100,000. Since many of the pages were created recently, and many more pages will be created soon, both these numbers will increase considerably in the coming months.

=== Anecdotal ===

* Howie Lempel (who works for the Open Philanthropy Project) was impressed with the page on the Open Philanthropy Project. He said that in some ways, the page does a better job of conveying what the Open Philanthropy Project has accomplished so far than the website (with the caveat that both the Wikipedia page and the website only includes publicly available information, and therefore both are limited in accuracy and comprehensiveness).

* Scott Weathers liked the page on the timeline of global health

* Amy Zhang's high school teacher shared the timeline of global health with a UW professor. The timeline of global health was initially created by Issa and later improved upon by Amy.

* People at one of the orgs whose page Issa created offered to buy him drinks if he ever visited their location (note that they did not inappropriately influence the content of the page, beyond pointing to existing references and correcting errors backed by verifiable citations).

* Jesse made contact with another editor who had already created some animal welfare pages, and they had a fruitful exchange on the scope of animal welfare

* Jesse said that the Wikipedia pages he created on animal welfare and cellular agriculture were very helpful to his two blog posts on the Effective Altruism Forum, which got a lot of appreciation from people (and the associated drafts got a lot of feedback).

