Full name: Gabriel Bobis

Recruiter: Sebastian Sanchez

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/gabobis

Email: gabrielbobis.arg@gmail.com

Additional notes: Based in Argentina; Sebastian handles the communication

==Work in 2024==

Total money earned as income: $789 (all for Vipul Naik)

Payment made: $989 (all from Vipul Naik)

Net payment due: ($200) (all from Vipul Naik)

===Org Watch===

Total so far: $789

* August: $189. 21 hours at $9/hour. This includes work on two new organizations: Our World in Data and the Global Priorities Institute. The work was committed to GitHub by Sebastian; see commits https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commit/9342e1dd11fbcf33c252d33e56a2373be8429ee1 https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commit/3252ee38c452d3f99889eee711609dc47404701b https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commit/9b5996bad038870d082054478ce10a60649b22ed

* September: $275. 35 hours, with the first 25 hours at $9/hour and the next 10 hours at $5/hour. The work was committed to GitHub by Sebastian; see the commits under https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2024-09-01&until=2024-09-30 pertaining to the following organizations: Antikythera, Cornell Effective Altruism, University of Chicago Existential Risk Laboratory, AI for Good Foundation, and ContinualAI.

* October: $325. 45 hours, with the first 25 hours at $9/hour and the next 20 hours at $5/hour. The work was committed to GitHub by Sebastian; see the commits under https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2024-10-01&until=2024-10-31 pertaining to the following organizations: FAR.AI, Responsible AI Institute, Charity Entrepreneurship, Centre for the Governance of AI, Reducetarian Foundation, Animal Advocacy Careers, and All Tech Is Human.

===Payments made===

Total so far: $989

* $189 sent and received Tuesday, September 3, 2024. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.00327401 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $57,727.05 per BTC) with a small transaction fee of 0.00000868 BTC ($0.50 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/explorer/transactions/btc/0936b263f33ab63fec53fd06c1384c15071e4c2c5ef8c8edeadfff44b66ab71b (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $800 sent and received Saturday, October 5, 2024. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.01290838 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $61,975.15 per BTC) with a small transaction fee of about 0.000015490 BTC ($0.96 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/explorer/transactions/btc/c0b90347cd22eb2e260ab28291a864710730f29bd242c806d1996939c0d00742 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading; the transaction of interest is at number 23).
