Full name: Issa Rice

Recruiter: Vipul Naik

Wikipedia handle: Riceissa

* Wikipedia user profile: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Riceissa

* Contributions: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Riceissa

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/riceissa

Website: http://issarice.com

EA Forum user profile: http://effective-altruism.com/user/riceissa/

Note: The arrangement with Issa is much more complicated because, in addition to creating content on Wikipedia, he does background research, helps with managing editors, etc. However, notably ''he is not paid for pageviews on Wikipedia pages he writes''.

For in-depth stats see https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Issa+Rice

== Impact ==

=== Pageviews ===

Wikipedia Views links for tracking total pageviews of pages created:

* All time (includes pre-2016 pages): http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Pages%20created%20by%20Issa%20Rice&language=en&allmonths=allmonths

* Only 2016 (however, this also includes Form 1040, that was published on January 1, though included in 2015 payment): http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Pages%20created%20by%20Issa%20Rice%20in%202016&language=en&allmonths=allmonths

* Pages edited significantly but not created: http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Pages%20edited%20significantly%20but%20not%20created%20by%20Issa%20Rice&allmonths=allmonths

=== Anecdotal ===

* Howie Lempel (who works for the Open Philanthropy Project) was impressed with the page on the Open Philanthropy Project. He said that in some ways, the page does a better job of conveying what the Open Philanthropy Project has accomplished so far than the website  (with the caveat that both the Wikipedia page and the website only includes publicly available information, and therefore both are limited in accuracy and comprehensiveness).

* Scott Weathers liked the page on the timeline of global health

* Amy Zhang's high school teacher shared the timeline of global health with a UW professor. The timeline of global health was initially created by Issa and later improved upon by Amy.

* People at one of the orgs whose page Issa created offered to buy him drinks if he ever visited their location (note that they did not inappropriately influence the content of the page, beyond pointing to existing references and correcting errors backed by verifiable citations).

== Work and other compensation in 2018 ==

=== Summary ===

Total money earned by doing work (taxable as income for 2018): $17684.32

Payment made: $28000

Carryover payment due from 2017: $11048.41

Net payment due: $732.73

=== Completed pages for Vipul (Timelines Wiki) ===

Total so far: $375

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Berkeley_Existential_Risk_Initiative Timeline of Berkeley Existential Risk Initiative]: $50. Completed February 9, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Berkeley_Existential_Risk_Initiative&oldid=19986 (10,881 bytes, 2018-02-09 18:49 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_OpenAI Timeline of OpenAI]: $100. Completed May 8, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_OpenAI&oldid=22261 (2018-05-08 23:02 UTC, 28771 bytes, 37 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_rationality_community Timeline of the rationality community]: $70. Completed May 9, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_rationality_community&oldid=22297 (2018-05-10 05:19 UTC, 23790 bytes, 42 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Center_for_Human-Compatible_AI Timeline of Center for Human-Compatible AI]: $30. Completed May 10, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Center_for_Human-Compatible_AI&oldid=22309 (2018-05-11 00:35 UTC, 7179 bytes, 11 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Google_Brain Timeline of Google Brain]: $75. Completed June 13, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Google_Brain&oldid=23178 (2018-06-14 00:59 UTC, 17419 bytes, 24 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Foundational_Research_Institute Timeline of Foundational Research Institute]: $50. Completed July 16, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Foundational_Research_Institute&oldid=23956 (2018-07-16 17:08 UTC, 10413 bytes, 19 rows)

=== Completed pages for Alex Flint (Timelines Wiki) ===

Total so far: $300

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Future_of_Humanity_Institute Timeline of Future of Humanity Institute]: $300. Completed March 18, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Future_of_Humanity_Institute&oldid=21039 (2018-03-18 18:48 UTC, 91994 bytes, 150 rows)

=== Updates to existing pages (Timelines Wiki) ===

Total so far: $25

* Timeline of Machine Intelligence Research Institute: $25. Completed February 24, 2018. Payment for page as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute&oldid=20301 and specifically for the diff https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute&type=revision&diff=20301&oldid=16832 (82,663 bytes to 89,249 bytes)

=== Completed articles on wikiHow ===

Total so far: $219.26

* [https://www.wikihow.com/Navigate-to-Web-Pages-Efficiently-Without-Using-Navigation-Menus Navigate to Web Pages Efficiently Without Using Navigation Menus]: $118.13 (15 hours 45 minutes at $7.50/hour). Completed September 10, 2018. Worked August 23 to September 10, including post-publication improvement. Completed version at https://www.wikihow.com/index.php?title=Navigate-to-Web-Pages-Efficiently-Without-Using-Navigation-Menus&oldid=25218935 and mirror at https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/blob/master/external/wikihow.com/url-navigation-tips.mediawiki

* [https://www.wikihow.com/Write-Facebook-Graph-Search-Queries Write Facebook Graph Search Queries]: $101.13 at $7.50/hour for 13 hours 29 minutes. Work done between the days of September 30 and October 4.

=== Other miscellaneous wikiHow work ===

Total so far: $18.90

* Miscellaneous work in September: $18.90 (2 hours 31 minutes at $7.50/hour). Work done on September 8 and 9. Involved making improvements to pages such as https://www.wikihow.com/index.php?title=Get-Traffic-Analytics-for-a-Website-You-Don%27t-Own&diff=25209675&oldid=25104427

=== Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki ===

Total so far: $1365.75

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki (first installment): $450 at $45/day for 10 days, ending March 7, 2018.

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki (second installment): $400 at $40/day for 10 days, from March 8, 2018 to April 14, 2018 (ending March 29, 2018 excluding report preparation). Progress report at https://causeprioritization.org/Progress_report_2018-03-08_to_2018-03-29

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki (third installment): $400 at $40/day for 10 days, from April 14, 2018 to May 3, 2018. Progress report at https://causeprioritization.org/Progress_report_starting_2018-04-14

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki (aborted fourth installment) $33 at $40/day for 6 hours 35 minutes of work on May 3, 2018. The original thinking was that this would lead to another 10-day block, but Vipul decided against investing in that 10-day block right now.

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki in October, on topics donor motivations, donation considerations, and EA Projects: $37.60 at $5/hour for 7 hours 31 minutes. Work done October 27 and October 28.

* Work on Cause Prioritization Wiki in October, on topics technological progress and stagnation: $45.15 at $5/hour for 9 hours 2 minutes. Work done between October 29 and October 31.

=== Work on people watching ===

Total so far: $380

* People watching: $380 for two 4-day periods at $50/day and $45/day, ending January 13, 2018.

=== Work on Donations List Website ===

Total so far: $2063.52

* Work on Donations List Website in January: $675 (79 hours 20 minutes)

* Work on Donations List Website in February: $350 (41 hours)

* Work on Donations List Website in March: $70 (8 hours 12 minutes)

* Work on Donations List Website in April: $250 (29 hours 43 minutes)

* Work on Donations List Website in May: $78 (9 hours 8 minutes)

* Work on Donations List Website in June: $55 (6 hours 27 minutes)

* Work on Donations List Website in July: $146 (17 hours 11 minutes at $8.50/hour)

* [http://effective-altruism.com/ea/1s3/donations_list_website_tutorial_and_request_for/ Donations List Website: tutorial and request for feedback]: $65 (7 hours 38 minutes at $8.50/hour). Work done between August 18 and August 24. The post itself was published on August 21, but time spent includes time replying to comments

* Work on Donations List Website in August (excluding EA Forum post): $215 (25 hours 18 minutes at $8.50/hour). Date range of work in month: August 5 to August 30

* Work on Donations List Website in September: $39.10 (4 hours 36 minutes at $8.50/hour). Work happened from September 1 to September 21

* Work on Donations List Website in October: $66.44 (7 hours 49 minutes at $8.50/hour). Work happened from October 5 to October 22

* Work on Donations List Website in November: $53.98 (6 hours 21 minutes at $8.50/hour). Work happened from November 6 to November 29

=== Work on Contract Work website ===

Total so far: $50

* Work on Contract Work website in October: $50. Work summarized in [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/pull/18 pull request]; underlying issue [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/issues/17 here]. Pay at max{$8.50 * number of hours, $50}. Work done on October 24, 2018. Since work was completed in two hours, full pay of $50 was applied.

=== Work on Org Watch ===

Total so far: $497.98

* Work on Org Watch in June: $396 (52 hours 48 minutes at $7.50/hour)

* Work on Org Watch in July: $17 (2 hours 17 minutes at $7.50/hour)

* Work on Org Watch in August and September: $68.85 (9 hours 11 minutes at $7.50/hour). Mostly happened September 13 to September 19

* Work on Org Watch in October: $16.13 (2 hours 9 minutes at $7.50/hour). Work happened between October 6 and October 17.

=== Work on AI Watch ===

Total so far: $100

NOTE: This does not include AI Watch tasks that are performed during hours covered under the stipend, but are not directly paid for.

* Work on AI Watch in May: $100. 2 days (total 16 hours: May 28 and May 29) of work to add more data and summarization tools for people at the Machine Intelligence Research Institute: https://aiwatch.issarice.com/?organization=Machine+Intelligence+Research+Institute

=== Work on Devec/Demography data portal ===

Total so far: $36

* Work on Devec/Demography data portal in May: $36 (3 hours 43 minutes). Helping Vipul set up devec hosting, and some bugfixes and improvements in the process. See https://github.com/riceissa/devec-demography-data-portal/commits for more details

=== Work on computing data project ===

Total so far: $417

* Work on computing data project in July: $408 (41 hours 53 minutes at $9.75/hour)

* Work on computing data project in August: $9 (1 hour 12 minutes at $7.50/hour). Work done on August 27

=== Work on AI safety matched against other projects ===

Total so far: $404

* Work in July to match against CDP work in July: $295 (30 hours 14 minutes at $9.75/hour)

* Work in August to match against CDP work in July: $109 (11 hours 10 minutes at $9.75/hour). Work done August 2 to August 3

As of August end, 29 minutes of matched time is left at July rates ($9.75/hour). In addition, there is 1 hour 12 minutes of time left at August rates ($7.50/hour).

=== Work on org repo (predecessor to Org Watch) ===

Total so far: $30

* Org repo: $30 (5 hours 8 minutes of work, completed May 27)

=== Work on Wikipedia Views ===

Total so far: $70

* Wikipedia Clickstream: $70. Worked for 7 hours, 54 minutes, on April 21 and April 25. The work built on previous work with the clickstream dataset to streamline the monthly update process, now that the Wikimedia Foundation is publishing the datasets every month. See https://github.com/vipulnaik/wikipediaviews/issues/21 for the issue specifics

=== Work on career planning ===

Total so far: $158.31

* Work on career planning in September: $158.31 (25 hours 20 minutes at $6.25/hour). Work happened from September 22 to September 30

* Work on career planning in October: $51.25 (8 hours 12 minutes at $6.25/hour). Work happened from October 2 to October 11

=== Work on learning subwiki

Total so far: $306.56

* Work on learning subwiki August to Novmeber: $306.56 (45 hours 51 minutes). August: 4th; September: 10th to 20th; October: 6th to 26th; November: 2nd to 29th. $70 for the first 8 hours at $8.75/hour, and $236.56 for the next 37 hours 51 minutes at $6.25/hour.

=== Other work on timelines wiki ===

Total so far: $444

* Timelines main page update at request: $5. Done March 10, 2018.

* One year of timelines wiki maintenance: $320. This includes hosting and maintenance costs of $20/month (total $240), plus payment for additional work, such as automating the main page table and making sure it is updated: https://github.com/riceissa/timelines-wiki-main-page-table

* Timelines wiki popularization thinking: $119. Completed April 13, 2018. This is 19 hours of work brainstorming various ideas on improving content and engagement with Timelines Wiki. One of the outcomes of this was the creation of the [https://www.reddit.com/r/TimelinesWiki/ Timelines Wiki subreddit] to which Issa has been posting regularly. Budget was for four days (32 hours) at $6.25/hour of which 19 were used; Issa has flexibility to spend, report, and get paid for the remaining 13 hours later

=== Other work ===

Total so far: $170

* Work on summer recruitment plans: $50. Completed April 13, 2018. This is 8.5 hours of work. This was an exploration of strategies to find people who might work with us over the summer. However, we ultimately decided not to pursue this further in 2018. Initially agreed on $50 for 8 hours of work; Issa ended up spending an extra half hour on it

* [https://www.lesswrong.com/s/h8DebDmuode4TMcRj/p/LJiGhpq8w4Badr5KJ GraphQL tutorial for LessWrong and Effective Altruism Forum]: $120 (16 hours at $7.50/hour). Completed December 8, 2018. Work done November 16, 2018 to December 8, 2018, see history at https://github.com/riceissa/ea-forum-reader/commits/master/tutorial.md Although work on the post and the associated tools took more time, the paid time was capped at 16 hours. The post was added to the [https://www.lesswrong.com/s/h8DebDmuode4TMcRj LW Open Source Guide] by Raymond Arnold.

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $10165.79

* January: $1500

* February: $1500. Worked 161.6 hours against total work hours of 160; accumulated 1.6 hours to adjust against a future month.

* March: $1500. Worked 184 hours against total work hours of 184.

* April: $1500. Worked 160.78 hours against total work hours of 160.

* May: $540. Worked 63.9 hours against total work hours of 184. Applied 2.38 hours from the past, giving 66.28 hours.

* June: $659. Worked 77.28 against total work hours of 176, so pay scaled from original of $1500.

* July: $791. Worked 97.07 hours against total work hours of 184, so pay scaled from original of $1500.

* August: $528. Worked 59.82 hours against total work hours of 136, so pay scaled from original of $1200.

* September: $643.67. Worked 72.95 hours against total work hours of 136, so pay scaled from original of $1200.

* October: $585. Worked 66.30 hours against total work hours of 136, so pay scaled from original of $1200.

* November: $419.12. Worked 47.50 hours against total work hours of 136, so pay scaled from original of $1200.

=== Royalties ===

Total so far: $6

* April 1, 2018: $6. Payment of $1 for every $1,000 in deferred payment receipt above a $12,000 base. Since the check was for $18,000, that translated to $6 (for the $6,000 above the base $12,000)

=== Touch payments ===

Total so far: $30

* January: $10

* April: $10

* September: $10

=== TODO ===

At some point:

* Update pay for timeline of BERI updates/expansion
* Updates to timeline of MIRI, CFAR, and AI safety

=== Payments made ===

Total so far: $28000

* Check for $18000: Dated April 1, 2018, mailed April 2, 2018. Received April 5, 2018. Deposited April 9, 2018. Last release of money planned for April 18, 2018.

* Check for $10000: Dated November 22, 2018, mailed November 22, 2018. Received November 30, 2018. Deposited December 11, 2018. Last release of money planned for December 12, 2018. Money deducted from sender account December 12, 2018.

== Work and other compensation in 2017 ==

=== Summary ===

Total money earned by doing work (taxable as income for 2017): $36765.10

Payment made: $31000

Carryover payment due from 2016: $5283.31

Net payment due: $11048.41

=== Completed pages (on Wikipedia) ===

Total so far: $202

* Timeline of digital preservation: $90. Completed January 4, 2017.

* Global Burden of Disease Study: $75. Completed February 7, 2017.

* Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security: $37. Completed February 9, 2017.

=== Completed pages (on timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $1695

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Against_Malaria_Foundation Timeline of Against Malaria Foundation]: $155. Completed April 27, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Against_Malaria_Foundation&oldid=13553

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bill_%26_Melinda_Gates_Foundation Timeline of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation]: $120. Completed May 11, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bill_%26_Melinda_Gates_Foundation&oldid=13804

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_electricity_adoption Timeline of electricity adoption]: $125. Completed June 8, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_electricity_adoption&oldid=14606

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute Timeline of Machine Intelligence Research Institute]. $250. Completed July 15, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Machine_Intelligence_Research_Institute&oldid=15715

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Center_for_Applied_Rationality Timeline of Center for Applied Rationality]. $50. Completed July 28, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Center_for_Applied_Rationality&oldid=16107

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin Timeline of Bitcoin]: $180. Completed August 3, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bitcoin&oldid=16223 (2017-08-03 19:07 UTC, 58300 bytes, 118 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_libertarianism_in_the_United_States Timeline of libertarianism in the United States]: $150. Completed August 10, 2017, with 89 rows. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_libertarianism_in_the_United_States&oldid=16484

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Niskanen_Center Timeline of Niskanen Center]. $115. Completed August 16, 2017. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Niskanen_Center&oldid=16681

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Ludwig_von_Mises_Institute Timeline of Ludwig von Mises Institute]: $75. Completed August 25, 2017, with 29 rows. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Ludwig_von_Mises_Institute&oldid=17039

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Cato_Institute Timeline of Cato Institute]: $135. Completed August 31, 2017, with 81 rows. Still needs some big picture expansion and more event completion. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Cato_Institute&oldid=17072

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_AI_safety Timeline of AI safety]: $170. Completed October 31, 2017, with 83 rows. Still missing a big picture. Version as of https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_AI_safety&oldid=18070

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_evolutionary_thought Timeline of evolutionary thought]: $25. Completed December 2, 2017 (stub). Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_evolutionary_thought&oldid=18927 (2017-12-03 00:57 UTC, 4828 bytes, 20 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_economic_statistics Timeline of economic statistics]: $145. Completed November 10, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_economic_statistics&oldid=18235 (2017-11-11 00:46 UTC, 55767 bytes). About half the size as of this point was due to Issa, with the other half being from Vipul. Subsequent expansion was mostly by Vipul

=== Tasks for Peter Hurford ===

Total so far: $645

* [https://gist.github.com/riceissa/186b1d2e8bbb85e6204b5e06aba64018 hits-based giving project]: $570. Initial work on a project based on a slight modification of an earlier [http://effective-altruism.com/ea/14s/how_many_hits_does_hitsbased_giving_get_a/ proposal by Peter Hurford]. The project couldn't work out due to data not being available; however, Issa was paid $15/hour for 38 hours.

* [https://donations.vipulnaik.com/donor.php?donor=Open+Philanthropy+Project#donorDonationAmountsByDisclosuresAndYear Breakdown of Open Phil donations by disclosure and year, also works with any cause area filter]: $75. Although total billable time cost was a little higher, that time was also used to improve the Donations List Website, so Peter only paid part of the cost.

=== Royalties ===

Total so far: $41

* Cause Prioritization Wiki (January 1, 2016 to February 10, 2017): $41

=== Open Phil and Good Ventures Wikipedia page grant list updates ===

For each month, the payment is calculated according to:

max{$27, min{$50, 5 * (1 + ''N'')}}

Here, ''N'' is supposed to represent number of new distinct grants. This is calculated as follows: at the end of each month, take the union of "all grants newly announced to the public by Open Phil during that month" and "all grants newly announced to the public by Good Ventures during that month". Then ''N'' is the number of grants in this set. Note that because Open Phil and Good Ventures do not immediately add grants to their databases as soon as they are made, the grants newly announced to the public during a month likely differ from the grants made during the same month.

Total so far: $100

* January end update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $50 (for adding 6 new grants to Open Phil and 13 new grants to Good Ventures). Completed January 29, 2017.

* February end update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $50 (for adding 13 new grants to Open Phil and 9 new grants to Good Ventures). Completed February February 26, 2017.

=== Technology company timeline updates ===

A series of updates starting in the latter half of February 2017.

Total so far: $323

* Timeline of Snapchat: $28. Completed February 17, 2017.

* Timeline of Facebook: $25. Completed February 18, 2017.

* Timeline of Pinterest: $30. Completed February 20, 2017.

* Timeline of Airbnb: $23. Completed February 21, 2017.

* Timeline of Twitter: $28. Completed February 21, 2017.

* Timeline of LinkedIn: $38. Completed February 22, 2017.

* Timeline of Instagram: $22. Completed February 22, 2017.

* Timeline of GitHub: $100. Completed March 1, 2017.

* Timeline of Reddit: $29. Completed March 3, 2017.

=== Other tasks ===

Total so far: $7064

* Initial work on SQL table structure and initial set of rows for https://donations.vipulnaik.com: $155. Completed January 8, 2017.

* Post announcing essay contest for general considerations for small-scale giving opportunities: $50. Completed January 19, 2017.

* Fixes to page for Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance: $7. Completed January 25, 2017.

* Consulting work, fixing character encoding issue on Wikipedia Views, see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39261867/php-mysql-fixing-utf8-text-corrupted-by-implicit-mysqliset-charsetlatin1: $20. Completed January 25, 2017.

* Updates to timeline of global health; fixed 11 dead links and added three new events (first two cholera pandemics, typhus epidemic): $20. Completed January 26, 2017.

* Added reception section to page on Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME): $14. Completed January 28, 2017.

* Moving ICCIDD page to Iodine Global Network and updating the page content: $14. Completed February 7, 2017.

* Form 990 page, added Decoder by Charity Navigator: $3. Completed February 10, 2017.

* Addition of many new pages to create (Open Philanthropy Project grantees who do not have their own Wikipedia pages), to the new article pool: $50. Completed February 10, 2017.

* Addition of grants data to Laura and John Arnold Foundation page: $220. Based on GitHub repository https://github.com/riceissa/arnold-foundation-grants and originally attempted to save on the main page https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laura_and_John_Arnold_Foundation but reverted by Jytdog, see https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Laura_and_John_Arnold_Foundation&type=revision&diff=765028074&oldid=765019623 so saved a search engine-indexable version in userspace. Completed February 11, 2017.

* Preliminary research understanding different patterns of editing on Wikipedia. Research produced profiles of different kinds of Wikipedia editors, and an interface to generate a report on the trajectory of Wikipedia editor. The interface is not yet public: $200. Completed March 3, 2017. You can see code at https://github.com/riceissa/wikidossier

* Content migration of timelines from Wikipedia to Timelines wiki (at https://timelines.issarice.com): $200. Completed March 20, 2017.

* Addition of Laura and John Arnold Foundation grants to donations list website, see https://github.com/riceissa/arnold-foundation-grants/blob/master/grants.sql for the pasteable code and https://donations.vipulnaik.com/donor.php?donor=Laura+and+John+Arnold+Foundation for the result: $60. Completed March 22, 2017.

* LessWrong post on LessWrong traffic data: $80. Post available at http://lesswrong.com/lw/owa/lesswrong_analytics_february_2009_to_january_2017/ published on April 16, 2017.

* Addition of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation grants to donations list website, see https://github.com/riceissa/gates-foundation-iati-processing for the code to generate the data, and https://donations.vipulnaik.com/donor.php?donor=Bill+and+Melinda+Gates+Foundation for the result: $230. Completed April 23, 2017.

* Improvements to wikidossier, including user comparison and namespace breakdown: $100. Completed March 11, 2017. See https://github.com/riceissa/wikidossier/commit/ae343d95b27bb0cb65fcf886f96591cabd6d25ca for the most recent commit covered by this payment.

* Fix sorting of tables for donations.vipulnaik.com so it can handle sorting with the numbers having commas in them for readability: $40. Completed June 18, 2017. See https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/tree/comma-sort for the branch and https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/commit/f7f99b4f0db39d3147d72a5a7f8f30f856fa4e9f for the most recent commit.

* Add legend in graphs on Wikipedia Views: $40. Completed July 7, 2017. See https://github.com/vipulnaik/wikipediaviews/pull/18 and https://github.com/vipulnaik/wikipediaviews/pull/19. Code is at https://github.com/vipulnaik/wikipediaviews/blob/master/python/graph.py and was also copied by Vipul to https://github.com/vipulnaik/bart/blob/master/python/graph.py and https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/blob/master/python/graph.py

* Lots of code updates for Donations List Website: $300. Completed July 22, 2017. See the branches https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/tree/donee-deduplication https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/tree/donor-similarity and https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/tree/notes-col-expansion for the relevant commits. Some commits done directly in master. Worked for about 5.5 working days (started July 15, 2017).

* One-time onboarding payment for Sebastian Sanchez: $75. Awarded August 5, 2017. Since no commission structure was used for Sebastian, but Issa did help with onboarding Sebastian and continues to provide technical assistance, a one-time payment of $75 (at 15% of the first $500) was added.

* Lots of code updates for Donations List Website: $325. Completed August 12, 2017. This included some work for Peter visible at https://donations.vipulnaik.com/donor.php?donor=Open+Philanthropy+Project#donorDonationAmountsByDisclosuresAndYear for which a cost of $75 was paid by Peter, so the amount paid here includes total value of work ($400) minus the cost covered by Peter. Work spanned 6.5 working days.

* Creation of list of Open Philanthropy Project predictions on PredictionBook: $74. Completed August 29, 2017. Available at https://predictionbook.com/users/OpenPhilUnofficial and GitHub repository at https://github.com/riceissa/open-phil-predictions Breakdown of pay: $30 base pay, $44 for predictions

* Lots of code updates for Donations list website: $200. Completed September 30, 2017. See commits from September 28 to September 30 by Issa Rice, specifically https://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/commits?author=riceissa&since=2017-09-28T07:00:00Z&until=2017-10-01T07:00:00Z for the full list. This included incorporating data from the Effective Altruism Survey (separate repository https://github.com/riceissa/ea-survey-donations with 12 commits) and Effective Altruism Grants (separate repository https://github.com/riceissa/ea-grants-processing/commits?author=riceissa&since=2017-09-01T07:00:00Z&until=2017-10-01T07:00:00Z with 6 commits)

* Code updates for contractwork.vipulnaik.com: $135. Completed October 7, 2017, in 8 hours and 49 minutes. Code written to generate graphs of incremental and cumulative payments by various drilldowns plotted at yearly and monthly granularity. See pull requests https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/pull/10 https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/pull/11 https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/pull/12 or look at the commits made in https://github.com/riceissa/contractwork/tree/misc-2017-10 (a fork where the commits were made).

* Preliminary research in development economics: $300. Completed October 7, 2017. This is a stipend supplement. Preliminary reading on development economics as well as databases of economic growth and metrics. This would eventually help with data porting exercises and expanding https://devec.subwiki.org (the Devec subwiki).

* First round of work on data gathering from the Devec data portal: $700. Completed October 30, 2017. Most of the work was done between ? and ?. Outputs are at https://github.com/riceissa/maddison-project-data https://github.com/riceissa/penn-world-table-data https://github.com/riceissa/world-development-indicators https://github.com/riceissa/total-economy-database https://github.com/riceissa/fred-processing Total time spent is about 71 hours and 48 minutes.

* [https://aiwatch.issarice.com/ Phase 1 of work on AI Watch portal]: $150. Completed November 7, 2017.

* Automatic Wikipedia backup download, keeping it running continuously: $212. $4 per week at 53 weeks.

* People watching: $400 for two 4-day periods at $50/day, 4 days each in the last two weeks of December, ending December 29. See https://github.com/riceissa/issarice.com/commit/0e10eca1b82c425067779bc32af0b6f94be7acb8#diff-c7ed78d772be81a5381d65cc6d32a95f for more details

* Work on Donations List Website, including a bunch of issues related to importing data: $260. Total of 30 hours and 18 minutes logged, with last work on December 30. See comments made in December on http://github.com/vipulnaik/donations/issues for more information.

* Wikipedia spotlight: $700. Last worked on on November 30, 2017. Retrospective on how we got kicked out of Wikipedia for paid editing. This includes $600 for work from March through June and $100 for two days of work in November. There is a remaining $300 of potential pay for this project, for likely 6 days of additional work.

* Devec/Demography data portal work (SQL data porting): $475. Pay till December 7, 2017. Continued work on data porting to SQL; this extends the previously mentioned work ending 2017-10-30 of importing datasets and cleaning them up. This entry counts the part of the work after 2017-10-30 and till 2017-12-07

* Devec/Demography data portal work (portal creation): $165. Pay till December 14, 2017. Work on setting up the interface of the Devec/Demography data portal, from 2017-12-08 to 2017-12-14. Launch of the portal is pending review by Vipul

* Devec/Demography data portal work (SQL query optimization): $40. Pay till November 17, 2017. SQL query optimization work on 2017-11-16 and 2017-11-17 related to the Devec/Demography data portal

* Devec reading (related to Devec subwiki): $350. Pay till November 16, 2017. Continuation of preliminary reading in development economics work; this covers the batch of reading from 2017-10-07 to 2017-11-16. A previous payment was added for work from 2017-09-06 to 2017-10-06

* Computing data project: $250. Pay till December 9, 2017. Basic data entry and setup for a project to track computing prices over time. The project was paused for a while without producing a complete launchable product or website. Work was from 2017-11-18 to 2017-12-09

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $27014

* January: $250

* February: $250

* March: $1500

* January (deferred, realized on March 24) : $1200. More than usual $750 because of full month spent doing global health work.

* February (deferred, realized on March 24): $1150. More than usual $750 since most of the month was spent working with Vipul.

* Deferred stipends from 2016 awarded in 2017: $9360

* April: $1500

* May: $1304 (adjusted downward since Issa took the last week of May (Monday May 29 to Wednesday May 31) off)

* June: $1500

* July: $1500

* August: $1500

* September : $1500

* October: $1500

* November: $1500

* December: $1500

=== Touch payments ===

Total so far: $100

* January total: $20

* February total: $20

* April total: $10

* June total: $20

* October total: $10

* November total: $20

=== Commissions ===

Total so far: $31.10

* Joey Malandra: 10% on $73 = $7.30

* Charlie Corner: 15% on $50 = $7.50

* Devansh Dwivedy: 10% on $28 = $2.80

* Thomas Foster: 10% on $25 = $2.50

* Avi Glozman: 10% on $110 = $11

=== Payments made ===

Total so far: $31000

* Check for $4000: Sent October 1, 2016. Deposited January 3, 2017, money withdrawn from account January 4, 2017.

* Check for $12000: Sent March 25, 2017. Received April 10, 2017. Deposited April 15, 2017, money withdrawn from account April 17, 2017.

* Check for $15000: Sent September 27, 2017. Received September 30, 2017. Deposited October 2, 2017, third installment of money to be deposited October 12, 2017.

== Work and other compensation in 2016 ==

=== Summary ===

Total money earned by doing work (taxable as income for 2016): $10266.55

Reimbursement due (not taxable as income for 2016): $401.03

Payment made: $6382

Carryover pending payment from 2015: $997.73

Net payment due: $5283.31

=== Completed pages ===

Total so far: $1823

* Green Card Test: $25. Published January 5, 2016.
* Triplebyte: $25 for initial work, $6 for additional later work and publication: $31. Initial work in January 2016, publication later in the year on June 4. Deleted but still in userspace.
* Form 1099: $50. Published January 11, 2016.
* Form 1099-MISC: $100. Published January 21, 2016.
* Form W-9: $50. Published January 23, 2016.
* Form 1096: $25. Published January 25, 2016.
* Form W-2: $100. Published January 28, 2016.
* Form 990: $100. Published February 3, 2016.
* Form I-140: $150, plus $18 for other miscellaneous improvements. Published March 4, 2016.
* Open Philanthropy Project: $100. Published March 22, 2016.
* Timeline of global health: $170 + $20 completion bonus. Published April 14, 2016.
* Timeline of deworming: $115. Published April 24, 2016.
* Timeline of nonprofit evaluation: $105. Published April 30, 2016.
* 3 by 5 Initiative: $30. Published May 2, 2016.
* Innovative Vector Control Consortium: $35. Published May 4, 2016.
* The State of the World's Children: $30. Published May 4, 2016.
* Child survival revolution: $101. Published May 11, 2016.
* Participatory poverty assessment: $63. Published May 17, 2016.
* Voices of the Poor: $39. Published May 18, 2016.
* International Decision Support Initiative: $39. Published June 7, 2016.
* Amanda Glassman: $32. Published June 8, 2016.
* Health systems strengthening: $43. Published June 17, 2016.
* Professional consensus of economics: $67. Published July 10, 2016.
* Priority-setting in global health: $155. Published July 27, 2016.
* Initiative on Global Markets: $30. Published October 5, 2016.

Form 1040, though published on January 1, 2016 is counted in 2015 since the bulk of the work for it was carried out in 2015.

=== Open Phil and Good Ventures Wikipedia page grant list updates ===

For each month, the payment is calculated according to:

max{$27, min{$50, 5 * (1 + ''N'')}}

Here, ''N'' is supposed to represent number of new distinct grants. This is calculated as follows: at the end of each month, take the union of "all grants newly announced to the public by Open Phil during that month" and "all grants newly announced to the public by Good Ventures during that month". Then ''N'' is the number of grants in this set. Note that because Open Phil and Good Ventures do not immediately add grants to their databases as soon as they are made, the grants newly announced to the public during a month likely differ from the grants made during the same month.

Total so far: $417

* Monthly update of Open Phil and Good Ventures grant lists (end of April): $50. Completed April 30, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and Good Ventures grant lists (end of May): $50. Completed June 4, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and Good Ventures lists (end of June): $27. Completed July 1, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and Good Ventures lists (end of July): $45 (6 new grants + 2 delayed grants). Completed July 29, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and Good Ventures lists (end of August): $55 ($45 for adding 8 new grants in total, and $10 for one-time extra work to deal with changes in the format). Completed August 31, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $50 (for adding 8 new grants to Open Phil and 12 new grants to Good Ventures). Completed September 29, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $50 (for adding 18 new grants to Open Phil and 11 new grants to Good Ventures). Completed October 27, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $50 (for adding 4 new grants to Open Phil (plus data wrangling) and 8 new grants to Good Ventures, for a total of 9 or more distinct grants). Completed November 30, 2016.

* Monthly update of Open Phil and GV grants database: $40 (for adding 7 new grants to Open Phil). Completed December 28, 2016.

=== IATI grants tables ===

Total so far: $250

* Addition of grants made table to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation English Wikipedia page: $50. Completed August 29, 2016.

* More addition of grants data to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation English Wikipedia page: $40. Completed September 1, 2016.

* Clarifications to grants data for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation English Wikipedia page: $5. Completed September 2, 2016.

* Grants data added for the Hewlett Foundation Wikipedia page: $40. Completed September 2, 2016.

* Grants data added for the Department for International Development page: $30. Completed September 3, 2016.

* Grants table added for the World Bank: $30. Completed September 4, 2016.

* Grants table added for the United Nations Development Programme: $30. Completed September 4, 2016.

* Some investigation into the French Development Agency IATI grants; we ultimately decided not to publish anything: $10. Completed September 5, 2016.

* Grants table added for the GAVI Alliance: $15. Completed September 6, 2016.

=== Other payments, including improvements to existing pages and non-Wikipedia content creation work ===

Total so far: $2993

* US tax investigation for compliance requirements for contract workers: $150. Completed January 18, 2016.

* stats.grok.se Wikimedia API fix: $80. Completed January 31, 2016.

* Retrieval of Animal Charity Evaluators: $20. Completed March 18, 2016.

* Adding years to DCP page: $6. Completed April 13, 2016.

* Other misc pay for consulting etc.: $25. Completed April 16, 2016.

* Wasted effort on timeline of mental health, after discovering that a similar page on timeline of psychiatry exists: $10. Completed April 26, 2016.

* Disease Control Priorities Project reference cleanup, page restructuring, more info on specific reports: $20. Completed May 25, 2016.

* Wikipedia usage survey construction and associated research: $70. Completed May 31, 2016.

* Sprucing up of GiveWell top charity pages: $55 ($25 each for AMF and GiveDirectly, another $5 for other general cleanup). Completed June 24, 2016.

* Work on review of GiveWell's finances and expenses: $100 (work still ongoing). Completed June 25, 2016.

* Tax issues resolution: $100 (final submission not done yet but this will be the total pay). Completed July 1, 2016.

* Wikipedia usage survey writeup: $110. Completed July 14, 2016.

* Some improvements to the Against Malaria Foundation Wikipedia page: $10. Completed July 16, 2016.

* Privacy Impact Assessment cleanup: $5. Completed August 7, 2016.

* GiveWell board meeting EA Forum article (http://effective-altruism.com/ea/10l/june_2016_givewell_board_meeting/): $100. Completed August 17, 2016.

* Creation of a model for computing the total value of a Wikipedia pageview. Ongoing work. Payment of $40 for work done as of August 29, 2016.

* Some improvements to the Form 1040 Wikipedia page: Completed September 17, 2016.

* Sprucing up of Google Consumer Surveys: $32. Completed September 30, 2016.

* Improving GiveWell staff growth page to now separately cover Open Phil and GiveWell staff: $10. Completed October 1, 2016.

* Adding plotting code and correlation matrix logic for Wikipedia Views: $80. Completed October 13, 2016. Working code available at https://gist.github.com/riceissa/8726e6a90d4a7634f3dd79cc1fdb63d5

* Restructuring and cleanup of Scientific Charity Movement page: $20. Completed October 14, 2016.

* Cleanup and expansion of Hiroshi Nakajima page: $35. Completed October 20, 2016.

* Wikipedia clickstream dataset work: $130. Completed November 4, 2016.

* Investigation into correlation between estimates of foreign-born and unauthorized population and state-level values of the populations: $80. Completed November 15, 2016.

* Adding bar and line chart generation code for pageview distribution for Wikipedia Views: $40. Completed November 19, 2016. Successfully integrated into Wikipedia Views on the same date.

* Getting list of special pages in all language Wikipedias: $40. Completed November 20, 2016.

* Getting list of help pages in all language Wikipedias: $25. Completed November 21, 2016.

* Automatic Wikipedia backup download: $100. Completed November 28, 2016.

* Updates to GiveWell and its top charities' Wikipedia pages to reflect 2016 recommendation status: $100. Completed November 30, 2016.

* Addition of new rows to timeline of Wikimedia analytics: $10. Completed November 30, 2016.

* Investigation into S3 cost modeling. Code at https://gist.github.com/riceissa/51ceb243a2f23995b902c1e320efdf71: $170. Completed December 3, 2016.

* Review and feedback on new version of Wikipedia usage survey results: $55 (originally planned for $50, then upped to $70, but then we decided I would fork it). Completed December 24, 2016.

* Work on the great decline post. The post itself is shelved for now. $925. Completed October 3, 2016. Payment added December 25, 2016, because the original plan was to add payment after completion of the work, but I decided to defer completion for a few months.

* Language conversion. $150. Completed October 4, 2016. Issa still owes me some some language conversions when I need them, though I'll probably just incorporate his code ideas into WV and he won't need to do anything (other than maybe help if I have questions).

* Researcher profiles: $70. Completed part sponsored by Vipul by December 31, 2016, though project officially stopped January 1, 2017.

=== Completed tasks for which payment was finalized too late for the 2016 tax year (will be included in 2017) ===

Total: $450

* Tag page list translation to other languages: $150. Completed about September 30, 2017. Payment finalized November 8, 2017. From chat logs: did finnish cities, usual 4, did japanese, usual 4,, onto musicians, did japanese, no drake, romeo santos, sia, did french, no drake or sia, did spanish, no drake or sia, did german, no drake or sia, did italian, no drake or sia, did dutch, no drake, romeo santos, sia, did polish, same 3 as dutch, did russian, drake and sia".

* Abandoned work on Giving Games: $200 severance fee. Completed August 24, 2016. Payment finalized December 2, 2017.

* Abandoned work on GiveWell mid-year review post for 2017: $100 severance fee. Completed July 9, 2016. Payment finalized December 8, 2017.

=== Touch payments ===

Total: $320

=== Commission on task payments ===

List updated December 25, 2016. May not be kept up-to-date continuously.

Total: $270.63

* Adrian Ulloa: Commission of 10% on $205 = $20.50

* Amy Zhang: Commission of 15% on $80 = $12

* Avi Glozman: Commission of 10% on $476 = $47.60

* Chris Kunin: Commission of 10% on $262 = $26.20

* Eddy Su: Commission of 10% on $71 = $7.10

* Michael Royzen: Commission of 10% on $50 = $5

* Sean Yu: Commission of 10% on $55 = $5.50

* Thomas Foster: Commission of 10% on $105 = $10.50

* Devansh Dwivedy: Commission of 10% on $125 = $12.50

* Charlie Corner: Commission of 15% on $152 = $22.80

* Sergey Yegorov: Commission of 10% on $198 = $19.80

* Alex K. Chen: Commission of 3% on $2491 = $74.73

* Joey Malandra: Commission of 10% on $64 = $6.40

=== Commission on royalty payments ===

* 3% on Alex K. Chen's 2016 royalty of $1764.10 = $52.92

=== Stipend payments ===

Total so far: $3690

* February 2016 (awarded December 28, 2016, after deferral): $700

* March 2016 (awarded December 28, 2016, after deferral): $900

* May 2016: $300

* June 2016: $250

* July 2016: $250

* August 2016: $190

* September 2016: $250

* October 2016: $250

* November 2016: $250

* December 2016: $250

* All of 2016: $100 for managing Alex K. Chen

=== Reimbursement payments ===

Total so far: $401.03

* $115 for cash payment to Ethan

* $80 for PayPal payment to Amy

* $105.53 for PayPal payment to Adrian

* 100.50 for PayPal payment to Adrian 

=== Payment schedule ===

Total payment received for 2016: $5044 (+ $4000 pending)

* PayPal payments made starting January and till April 22, 2016: $1044

* Check dated May 14, 2016, successfully deposited and debited May 23, 2016: $4000

* Check dated and sent October 1, 2016: $4000

=== Deferred payments ===

This is a record of payments that will be made later, conditional to some milestones.

Total so far: $9360

* April 2016: $900

* May 2016: $1000

* June 2016: $1250

* July 2016: $1250

* August 2016: $960

* September 2016: $1250

* October 2016: $1250

* November 2016: $750

* December 2016: $750

== Work in 2015 ==

Unfortunately we don't have a record of payment per page for 2015. However, we do have a list of pages created. Outside of Wikipedia pages, the list may not be complete.

=== Completed pages ===

* Timeline of online dating services: We're not sure if money was paid for this, but including it to be on the safe side

* Form 1040: $400. Although the work was done in 2015, the article was improved and published on January 1, 2016.

=== Other payments, including improvements to existing pages and non-Wikipedia content creation work ===

* Effective Altruism Forum article on Y Combinator nonprofit, available online at http://effective-altruism.com/ea/pn/an_overview_of_y_combinators_nonprofit_program/ $250. Published on Novemer 7, 2015

* A Plus (aplus.com): Some expansion of the article. $20

* [http://www.wikihow.com/Archive-Websites-on-Unix-Like-Systems Archive Websites on Unix Like Systems]: $300. Completed September 22, 2015

=== Commissions ===

Payment of 10% of Alex K. Chen's money from working on Wikipedia.

