Full name: Jesse Clifton

Recruiter: Vipul Naik, via Effective Altruism blog post http://effective-altruism.com/ea/w5/looking_for_wikipedia_article_writers_topics/

Wikipedia handle: JesseClifton

* Wikipedia user profile: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:JesseClifton

* Contributions: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/JesseClifton

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/jesse.clifton2

EA Forum user profile: http://effective-altruism.com/user/JesseClifton/

For in-depth stats see https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Jesse+Clifton

== Impact ==

=== Pageviews ===

Wikipedia Views link for pages created: http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Pages%20created%20by%20Jesse%20Clifton&language=en&allmonths=allmonths

Wikipedia Views link for pages significantly edited but not created: http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Pages%20created%20by%20Jesse%20Clifton&language=en&allmonths=allmonths

=== Anecdotal ===

* Jesse made contact with another editor who had already created some animal welfare pages, and they had a fruitful exchange on the scope of animal welfare

* Jesse said that the Wikipedia pages he created on animal welfare and cellular agriculture were very helpful to his two blog posts on the Effective Altruism Forum, which got a lot of appreciation from people (and the associated drafts got a lot of feedback).

== Work for 2017 ==

Total money earned as income (taxable as income for 2017): $40

Carryover payment due from 2016: $194

Net payment due: $234

=== Completed pages ===

* Sentience Politics: $40. Completed January 8, 2017.

== Work for 2016 ==

=== Summary ===

Total money earned by doing work (taxable as income for 2016): $2194

Payment made: $2000 (check)

Net payment due: $194

=== Completed pages ===

Total: $1817

* Timeline of animal welfare and rights: $150. Completed April 25, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in India: $100. Completed April 26, 2016.

* Timeline of animal welfare and rights in the United States: $100. Completed April 29, 2016.

* TImeline of animal welfare and rights in Europe: $100. Completed May 5, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Malaysia: $70. Completed May 6, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Japan: $60. Completed May 8, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in South Korea: $60. Completed May 10, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Brazil: $90. Completed May 13, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Austria: $60. Completed June 1, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Canada: $70. Completed June 5, 2016.

* Timeline of cellular agriculture: $50. Completed June 8, 2016.

* Global Animal Partnership: $30. Completed June 20, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in South Africa: $50. Completed June 23, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Ethiopia: $55. Completed June 23, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Indonesia: $55. Completed June 24, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Russia: $60. Completed June 24, 2016.

* Albert Schweitzer Foundation for Our Contemporaries: $32. Completed June 27, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Iran: $50. Completed page June 28, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Australia: $70. Completed page July 8, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Mexico: $50. Completed page July 22, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Argentina: $45. Completed page July 26, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Sweden: $50. Completed page July 28, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Germany: $60. Completed page July 30, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Spain: $70. Completed August 23, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in France: $70. Completed September 6, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Denmark: $45. Completed September 13, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in the Netherlands: $55. Completed November 20, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Switzerland: $60. Completed November 20, 2016.

=== Improvements to existing pages ===

Total: $177

* Animal welfare in the United States (significant additions to pre-existing page): $60. Completed May 8, 2016.

* Animal welfare and rights in Israel (significant additions to pre-existing page): $50. Completed May 24, 2016.

* The Humane League: $25. Completed June 23, 2016.

* Faunalytics: $12. Completed June 27, 2016.

* The Good Food Institute: $10. Completed November 24, 2016.

* Bulk updates for Animal Charity Evaluators recommended charities: $20. Completed November 29, 2016.

== Non-Wikipedia ==

Total: $200

* EAF blog post on cellular agriculture: $200. Completed June 20, 2016.