Full name: Reagan Sang

Recruiter: Issa Rice (Reagan initially connected to Issa for AI Watch and Issa redirected Reagan to Vipul)

Email: reagankibetsang@gmail.com

GitHub: https://github.com/ReaganKibet

Twitter/X: https://x.com/reaganlangat

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/reagan-langat/

Country: Kenya

==Work in 2024==

Total money earned as income: $1260 (all for Vipul Naik)

Payment: $1260 (all from Vipul Naik)

Net payment due: $0

===AI Watch===

Total so far: $1260

* August 2024: $98. Preliminary research and setup work for AI Watch, including reading the timeline of AI safety and working on local AI Watch setup: $98. 7 hours at $14/hour.

* September 2024: $462. Data entry (organization documents) for AI Watch, including additional time spent on correspondence and other auxiliary tasks. 33 hours at $14/hour.

* October 2024: $700. Data entry (organization documents) for AI Watch, including additional time spent on correspondence and other auxiliary tasks. 50 hours at $14/hour.

===Payments made===

Total so far: $1260

* $98 sent via PayPal on Wednesday, September 4, 2024; the funds were released a day later on 2024-09-06 in the recipient's timezone (the notice on the sender's end said the funds would be released by 2024-09-10). The actual amount sent was $93.33, with $4.67 in PayPal fees.

* $462 sent via PayPal on Friday, October 4, 2024. The actual amount was $457.01, with $4.99 in PayPal fees.

* $700 sent via PayPal on Tuesday, October 29, 2024. The actual amount was $695.01, with $4.99 in PayPal fees.