Full name: Sebastian Sanchez

Recruiter: Vipul Naik

Wikipedia handle: Wikisanchez

* Wikipedia user profile: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Wikisanchez

* Contributions: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Wikisanchez

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/seba.sanchez.3998

GitHub: https://github.com/sebastiansanchez123

Additional notes: Based in Argentina

For in-depth stats see https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Sebastian+Sanchez

==Work in 2023==

Total money earned as income: $0

Forward balance caried over from 2022: ($14805.83) (breakdown: ($801.83) for Vipul Naik, ($14004) for Future Fund Regranting Program)

Payment made: $3772.88

Net payment due: ($18578.71) (breakdown: ($4574.71) for Vipul Naik, ($14004) for Future Fund Regranting Program)

===Tentative pending payments for Future Fund Regranting Program===

Total so far: $800

* (accepted) [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_transhumanism Timeline of transhumanism]: $800. This applies a multiplier of 2 (as part of the Future Fund Regranting Program agreement for this specific timeline) to the amount of $400 that Vipul Naik would pay for the timeline. Completed January 10, 2023. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_transhumanism&oldid=72485 (2023-01-10 21:03 UTC, 154834 bytes, 8 sample questions + additional bullet point, 6 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts and 1 data table, 206 rows in full timeline)

===Payments made by Vipul Naik===

Total so far: $3772.88

* $3772.88 sent and received Thursday, January 12, 2023. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.2 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $18,864.38 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00001981 BTC ($0.37 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/explorer/transactions/btc/09cbe1824c07e330b4d298d0e07f566b58dac4a4cc6a86a638b753f21bf9a63e (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

== Work in 2022 ==

Total money earned as income: $15618.50 (breakdown: $12122.50 for Vipul Naik, $3496 for Future Fund Regranting Program)

Forward balance carried over from 2021: ($2571.99) (all for Vipul Naik)

Payment made: $27852.34 ($10352.34 from Vipul Naik, $17500 from Future Fund Regranting Program)

Net payment due: ($14805.83) (breakdown: ($801.83) for Vipul Naik, ($14004) for Future Fund Regranting Program)

=== New timelines (Timelines wiki) for Vipul Naik ===

Total so far: $3310

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cryptocurrency_and_philanthropy Timeline of cryptocurrency and philanthropy]: $240. Completed January 30, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cryptocurrency_and_philanthropy&oldid=62507 (2022-01-31 04:07 UTC, 107992 bytes, 6 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, 1 visual data chart with corresponding data table, 110 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Moderna Timeline of Moderna]: $530. Completed April 27, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Moderna&oldid=65089 (2022-04-27 19:08 UTC, 155437 bytes, 6 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, 3 visual data charts, 166 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_BioNTech Timeline of BioNTech]: $480. Completed April 30, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_BioNTech&oldid=65169 (2022-05-01 05:29 UTC, 152094 bytes, 7 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 12 rows in summary by year, 143 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_contract_research_organizations Timeline of contract research organizations]: $450. Completed May 31, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_contract_research_organizations&oldid=66103 (2022-06-01 04:45 UTC, 135678 bytes, 5 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts, 209 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_biotechnology_companies Timeline of biotechnology companies]: $600. Completed July 7, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_biotechnology_companies&oldid=67010 (2022-07-08 05:06 UTC, 232695 bytes, 11 sample questions, 6 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts and 1 data table, 350 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_quantification_of_life Timeline of quantification of life]: $300. Completed July 26, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_quantification_of_life&oldid=67544 (2022-07-27 01:50 UTC, 94160 bytes, 6 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 3 data tables, 134 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_FTX_collapse Timeline of FTX collapse]: $710. Completed December 30, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_FTX_collapse&oldid=72253 (2022-12-30 21:07 UTC, 172542 bytes, 10 sample questions, 6 background event summary rows, 21 key day summary rows, 4 visual data charts and 1 data table, 173 rows in full timeline)

=== Additions to existing pages for Vipul Naik ===

Total so far: $310

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GiveDirectly Timeline of GiveDirectly]: $90. Completed May 31, 2022. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GiveDirectly&type=revision&diff=66051&oldid=29554 Diff]. Increased from 34568 bytes to 59816 bytes. 19 new rows in full timeline, new country column, new sample questions, updates to summary by year and charts

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Tesla,_Inc. Timeline of Tesla, Inc.]: $220. Completed June 28, 2022. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Tesla%2C_Inc.&type=revision&diff=66710&oldid=11847 Diff]. Increased from 14847 bytes to 83855 bytes. 92 new rows in full timeline, introduction of sample questions, more numerical and visual data, updated big picture, column for images in full timeline

=== New timelines (Timelines wiki) for Future Fund Regranting Program ===

Total so far: $1200

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_existential_risk Timeline of existential risk]: $1200. This applies a multiplier of 2 (as part of the Future Fund Regranting Program agreement for this specific timeline) to the amount of $600 that Vipul Naik would pay for the timeline. Completed November 1, 2022. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_existential_risk&oldid=70686 (2022-11-02 01:43 UTC, 221803 bytes, 11 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts and 1 data table, 287 rows in full timeline)

=== Org Watch ===

Total so far: $2472.50

Starting March 2022, the first 25 hours per month of work on Org Watch are paid at $9/hour; later hours are paid at $5/hour. Starting July 2022, the first 40 hours per month of work on Org Watch are paid at $9/hour; later hours are paid at $5/hour.

* January: $135. 27 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-01-01&until=2022-01-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-01-03 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-01-31.

* February: $20. 4 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-02-01&until=2022-02-28 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-02-01 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-02-09.

* March: $225. 25 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-03-01&until=2022-03-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-03-11 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-03-27.

* April: $216. 24 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-04-01&until=2022-04-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-04-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-04-30.

* May: $225. 25 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-05-01&until=2022-05-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-05-01 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-05-20.

* June: $216. 24 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-06-01&until=2022-06-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-06-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-06-30.

* July: $324. 36 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-07-01&until=2022-07-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-07-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-07-31.

* August: $337.50. 37.5 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-08-01&until=2022-08-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-08-13 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-08-31.

* September: $342. 38 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-09-01&until=2022-09-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-09-04 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-09-29.

* October: $297. 33 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-10-01&until=2022-10-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-10-01 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-10-31.

* November: $36. 4 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-11-01&until=2022-11-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-11-11 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-11-27 (past midnight) in Sebastian's timezone and 2022-11-26 in PST.

* December: $99. 11 hours at $9/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2022-12-01&until=2022-12-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2022-12-01 and the last commit for the month was on 2022-12-31.

=== Stipends for Vipul Naik ===

Total so far: $6030

The rule of thumb for stipend is: $4/hour

* January: $708. The payment is at $4/hour for all 177 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 150 hours on Timelines Wiki and 27 hours on Org Watch.

* February: $636. The payment is at $4/hour for 159 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 165 hours on Timelines Wiki (including 5 hours exempt on timeline of GiveDirectly that are exempt from monthly cap, and 150 hours per the monthly cap), and 4 hours on Org Watch.

* March: $700. The payment is at $4/hour for 175 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 161 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which 150 are eligible per the monthly cap) and 25 hours on Org Watch.

* April: $696. The payment is at $4/hour for 174 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 159 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which 150 are eligible per the monthly cap) and 24 hours on Org Watch.

* May: $700. The payment is at $4/hour for 175 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 155 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which 150 are eligible per the monthly cap) and 25 hours on Org Watch.

* June: $696. The payment is at $4/hour for 174 hours eligible for stipend, compared to 146 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 122 hours on Timelines Wiki and 24 hours on Org Watch. Since the time on Timelines Wiki was less than the cap of 150 hours by 28 hours, 28 of the past accumulated excess of 66 hours were applied.

* July: $452. The payment is at $4/hour for 113 hours eligible for stipend, compared to 75 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 39 hours on Timelines Wiki and 36 hours on Org Watch. Since the time on Timelines Wiki was less than the cap of 135 hours by 96 hours, and the past accumulated excess was 38 hours, all 38 hours were applied.

* August: $178. The payment is at $4/hour for 44.5 hours worked, all hours being eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 7 hours on Timelines Wiki and 37.5 hours on Org Watch.

* September: $152. The payment is at $4/hour for 38 hours worked, all hours being eligible for stipend. All time was spent on Org Watch.

* October: $216. The payment is at $4/hour for 54 hours worked, all hours being eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 21 hours on Timelines Wiki and 33 hours on Org Watch.

* November: $412. The payment is at $4/hour for 103 hours worked, all hours being eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 99 hours on Timelines Wiki and 4 hours on Org Watch.

* December: $484. The payment is at $4/hour for 121 hours worked, all hours being eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 110 hours on Timelines Wiki and 11 hours on Org Watch.

=== Stipends for Future Fund Regranting Program ===

Total so far: $2296

The rule of thumb for stipend is: $4/hour

* June: $120. The payment is at $4/hour for all 30 hours worked on Timelines Wiki.

* July: $436. The payment is at $4/hour for all 109 hours worked on Timelines Wiki.

* August: $584. The payment is at $4/hour for all 146 hours worked on Timelines Wiki.

* September: $548. The payment is at $4/hour for all 137 hours worked on Timelines Wiki.

* October: $444. The payment is at $4/hour for all 111 hours worked on Timelines Wiki.

* November: $156. The payment is at $4/hour for all 39 hours worked on Timelines Wiki. The last date of this work was 2022-11-09 (past midnight) in Sebastian''s timezone and 2022-11-08 in PST, at which point further work for Future Fund Regranting Program was suspended in light of uncertainty around the situation with FTX and the FTX Future Fund. https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_transhumanism&diff=prev&oldid=70899 is the last saved edit that was part of this work.

* December: $8. The payment is at $4/hour for all 2 hours worked on Timelines Wiki. The green light to resume work on the Future Fund Regranting Program timelines was given on 2022-12-17, though Sebastian focused most of the time in December on timelines for Vipul.

=== Payments made by Vipul Naik ===

Total so far: $10352.34

* $1069.33 sent and received Tuesday, January 11, 2022. Transaction in Bitcoin Cash for 2.90383 BCH (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $368.25 per BCH) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000226 BCH (less than 0.01 USD). Transaction available online at https://btc.com/bch/transaction/77d820114df0bb00bdb6772e133594c2da74347622533021c43cb642737d9e62 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $4175.01 sent and received Saturday, February 5, 2022. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.1 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $41,750.08 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000387 BTC ($0.16 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/0fcc8f38ccebbef6ef5cace5bc736a86e786f3e3f34904e187b1c64605993f9d (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $3056.59 sent and received Wednesday, June 1, 2022. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.1 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $30,565.91 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000519 BTC ($0.16 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/22ab000176c53bdb11bde7826de0ff31abe93f37696f6d7b5f10ff3f04223eac (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $2051.41 sent and received Tuesday, November 1, 2022. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.1 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $20,514.08 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00001718 BTC ($0.35 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/7e5f8338e8f120661ac491c7c74281c2bbf6c2f6db6271aee5fee5e3624fcd00 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

=== Payments made by Future Fund Regranting Program ===

Total so far: $17500

* $8000 sent and received Saturday, August 6, 2022. Transaction in USD Coin using FTX, providing upfront the entire amount of the Future Fund Regranting Program grant for Timelines Wiki work by Sebastian Sanchez.

* $17000 sent and received Monday, October 10, 2022. Transaction in USD using FTX, providing upfront the entire amount of the second Future Fund Regranting Program grant for Timelines Wiki work by Sebastian Sanchez.

* -$7500 sent and received Friday, November 11, 2022. This negative payment records the loss of the remaining USD that Sebastian held in FTX due to the hack and bankruptcy of FTX.

== Work in 2021 ==

Total money earned as income: $19218.50

Forward balance carried over from 2020: ($5254.65)

Payment made: $16535.84

Net payment due: ($2571.99)

=== New timelines (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $4640

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Ethereum Timeline of Ethereum]: $290. Completed April 10, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Ethereum&oldid=52439 (2021-04-11 06:34 UTC, 79292 bytes, 12 sample questions, 8 rows in big picture, 7 visual data charts, 107 rows in full timeline, a Google Scholar mentions table)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_contact_tracing Timeline of contact tracing]: $140. Completed April 16, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_contact_tracing&oldid=52898 (2021-04-17 06:05 UTC, 42084 bytes, 8 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, 3 visual data charts, 57 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_contact_tracing_in_the_COVID-19_pandemic Timeline of contact tracing in the COVID-19 pandemic]: $340. Completed July 2, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_contact_tracing_in_the_COVID-19_pandemic&oldid=55895 (2021-07-03 03:17 UTC, 102138 bytes, 8 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 3 visual data charts, 142 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_calorie_restriction Timeline of calorie restriction]: $270. Completed July 11, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_calorie_restriction&oldid=56176 (2021-07-11 18:45 UTC, 71566 bytes, 5 sample questions, 4 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 90 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cognitive_biases Timeline of cognitive biases]: $400. Completed July 31, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cognitive_biases&oldid=56764 (2021-07-31 20:13 UTC, 133204 bytes, 5 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 133 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_quantified_self Timeline of quantified self]: $270. Completed July 31, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_quantified_self&oldid=56801 (2021-08-01 02:24 UTC, 69794 bytes, 8 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 94 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_weight_loss Timeline of weight loss]: $390. Completed August 27, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_weight_loss&oldid=57638 (2021-08-27 23:30 UTC, 89750 bytes, 8 sample questions, 4 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts, 139 rows in full timeline, a Google Scholar mentions table)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_life_extension Timeline of life extension]: $290. Completed August 27, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_life_extension&oldid=57627 (2021-08-27 22:38 UTC, 82815 bytes, 5 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts, 95 rows in full timeline, a Google Scholar mentions table)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_biohacking Timeline of biohacking]: $320. Completed September 12, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_biohacking&oldid=58107 (2021-09-12 19:19 UTC, 80400 bytes, 7 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 121 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_vitamin_D Timeline of vitamin D]: $350. Completed September 25, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_vitamin_D&oldid=58642 (2021-09-25 19:21 UTC, 75996 bytes, 6 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 3 numerical data tables, 5 visual data charts, 129 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_medical_ethics Timeline of medical ethics]: $360. Completed October 24, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_medical_ethics&oldid=59751 (2021-10-24 21:24 UTC, 92429 bytes, 6 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, 1 numerical data table, 4 visual data charts, 134 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nutritional_supplements Timeline of nutritional supplements]: $320. Completed December 22, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nutritional_supplements&oldid=61521 (2021-12-23 03:17 UTC, 82848 bytes, 5 sample questions, 4 rows in big picture, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 123 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_proteins Timeline of proteins]: $300. Completed December 22, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_proteins&oldid=61514 (2021-12-23 02:47 UTC, 94096 bytes, 5 sample questions, 3 rows in big picture, 6 data tables and 4 visual data charts, 108 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_fats Timeline of fats]: $600. Completed December 31, 2021. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_fats&oldid=61771 (2021-12-31 20:51 UTC, 182867 bytes, 7 sample questions, 5 rows in big picture, Google Scholar table and chart, 4 visual data charts + Google Scholar mentions table, 326 rows in full timeline)

=== Additions to existing pages (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $5099

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_SpaceX Timeline of SpaceX]: $100. Completed January 8, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_SpaceX&type=revision&diff=47767&oldid=42482 Diff]. Increased from 163,942 bytes to 198,254 bytes. 33 new rows in full timeline (plus edits to existing rows), 2 new sample questions, chart updates, and Google Ngram Viewer chart

* Comprehensive visual data updates across multiple timelines: $403. Completed February 6, 2021. 121 graphs across 41 timelines (A to C) at about $3.33 / graph

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin Timeline of Bitcoin]: $105. Completed February 28, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bitcoin&type=revision&diff=50202&oldid=47376 Diff]. Increased from 186427 bytes to 204305 bytes, despite refactoring Bitcoin Core updates to a more compact presentation. The update included about 35 new rows in full timeline as well as visual data updates.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_bioethics Timeline of bioethics]: $300. Completed March 9, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bioethics&type=revision&diff=50627&oldid=25753 Diff]. Increased from 30391 bytes to 105449 bytes. The update included many new rows and significant updates to column structure, a lot of visual data updates, sample questions, and other changes. The total number of rows in the full timeline increased from 60 to 141.

* Comprehensive visual data updates across multiple timelines: $1059. Completed March 31, 2021. 318 graphs across several timelines at about $3.33 / graph

* Comprehensive visual data updates across multiple timelines: $1169. Completed April 30, 2021. 351 graphs across several timelines at about $3.33 / graph

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_influenza Timeline of influenza]: $90. Completed May 31, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_influenza&type=revision&diff=54711&oldid=42236 Diff]. Increased from 147284 bytes to 166822 bytes. The update includes updates to the numerical and visual data section (with a new subsection on Google Scholar and some updates to Gogle Trends), 25 new rows in the full timeline, and some column updates.

* Google Scholar data updates across multiple timelines: $356. Completed June 30, 2021. Google Scholar table and chart additions for 89 timelines at $4 / timeline

* Comprehensive visual data updates across multiple timelines: $23. Completed June 4, 2021. 7 graphs across 2 timelines at about $3.33 / graph

* Miscellaneous graph updates: $22. Completed July 31, 2021. Graph fixes/remakes at $4 / graph for Google Scholar for three timelines (AlphaGo, Bitcoin, and digital preservation), and 3 graphs added to timeline of Chagas disease

* (this was added on January 1, 2022) [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Ethereum Timeline of Ethereum]: $4. Completed October 2, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Ethereum&type=revision&diff=58934&oldid=52439 diff]. Increased from 79292 bytes to 80765 bytes (Google Scholar updates within diff paid for separately)

* (this was added on January 1, 2022) [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_SpaceX Timeline of SpaceX]: $10. Completed October 28, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_SpaceX&type=revision&diff=59911&oldid=47767 diff]. Increased from 198254 bytes to 202347 bytes (some of these increases were already covered in chart expansion payments)

* Comprehensive visual data updates across multiple timelines: $40. Completed October 31, 2021. 12 charts across 4 timelines at $3.33 / timeline: decision theory, Ebola virus disease, e-commerce, and economic statistics

* Google Scholar data updates across multiple timelines: $340. Completed October 31, 2021. Google Scholar table and chart additions for 85 timelines at $4 / timeline

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators Timeline of Animal Charity Evaluators]: $10. Completed December 13, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators&type=revision&diff=61102&oldid=35161 diff]. Two new rows added to full timeline (Google Scholar and charts updates paid for separately)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_senescence_research Timeline of senescence research]: $300. Completed December 23, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_senescence_research&type=revision&diff=61563&oldid=19553 diff]. Increased from 26962 bytes to 126650 bytes, including addition of sample questions, updates to the big picture, visual and numerical data, and several rows in the full timeline

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_vaccines Timeline of vaccines]: $500. Completed December 31, 2021. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_vaccines&type=revision&diff=61809&oldid=22889 diff]. Increased from 39176 bytes to 211262 bytes, including addition of sample questions, updates to the big picture, visual and numerical data, and several rows in the full timeline

* Google Scholar data updates across multiple timelines: $208. Completed December 31, 2021. Google Scholar table and chart additions for 52 timelines at $4 / timeline

* Multiple pages: $60. Completed December 31, 2021. Updates made concurrently with updates to timeline of vaccinnes: Timeline of hepatitis: 16 rows plus 1 column for hepatitis type; Timeline of yellow fever: 3 rows; Timeline of typhoid fever: 4 rows; Timeline of tetanus:3 rows; Timeline of pneumonia: 4 rows

=== Org Watch ===

Total so far: $1297.50

* January: $125. 25 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-01-01&until=2021-01-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-01-03 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-01-12.

* February: $157.50. 31 hours 30 minutes at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-02-01&until=2021-02-28 for mmore details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-02-01 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-02-22.

* March: $165. 33 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-03-01&until=2021-03-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-03-06 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-03-26.

* April: $175. 35 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-04-01&until=2021-04-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-04-08 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-04-30.

* June: $110. 22 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-06-01&until=2021-06-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-06-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-06-30.

* July: $150. 30 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-07-01&until=2021-07-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-07-19 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-07-31.

* August: $50. 10 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-08-01&until=2021-08-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-08-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-08-30.

* September: $60. 12 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-09-01&until=2021-09-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-09-06 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-09-30.

* October: $100. 20 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-10-01&until=2021-10-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-10-03 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-10-25.

* November: $90. 18 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-11-01&until=2021-11-30 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-11-17 and the last commit for the month waas on 2021-11-29.

* December: $115. 23 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2021-12-01&until=2021-12-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2021-12-15 and the last commit for the month was on 2021-12-31.

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $8182

The rule of thumb for stipend is: $4/hour

* January: $560. The payment is at $4/hour for all 140 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 115 hours on Timelines Wiki and 25 hours on Org Watch.

* February: $726. The payment is at $4/hour for all 181.5 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 150 hours on Timelines Wiki and 31.5 hours on Org Watch.

* March: $808. The payment is at $4/hour for all 202 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 169 hours on Timelines Wiki and 33 hours on Org Watch.

* April: $760. The payment is at $4/hour for all 190 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 155 hours on Timelines Wiki and 35 hours on Org Watch.

* May: $680. The payment is at $4/hour for all 170 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: all 170 hours on Timelines Wiki.

* June: $608. The payment is at $4/hour for all 152 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 130 hours on Timelines Wiki and 22 hours on Org Watch.

* July: $740. The payment is at $4/hour for all 185 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 155 hours on Timelines Wiki and 30 hours on Org Watch.

* August: $608. The payment is at $4/hour for all 152 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 142 hours on Timelines Wiki and and 10 hours on Org Watch.

* September: $648. The payment is at $4/hour for 162 hours eligible for stipend out of a total of 167 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 155 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which stipend-eligible hours were capped at 150) and and 12 hours on Org Watch.

* October: $680. The payment is at $4/hour for 170 hours eligible for stipend out of a total of 178 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 158 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which stipend-eligible hours were capped at 150) and 20 hours on Org Watch.

* November: $672. The payment is at $4/hour for 168 hours eligible for stipend out of a total of 178 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 160 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which stipend-eligible hours were capped at 150) and 18 hours on Org Watch.

* December: $692. The payment is at $4/hour for 173 hours eligible for stipend out of a total of 181 hours worked. Total time spent was as follows: 158 hours on Timelines Wiki (of which stipend-eligible hours were capped at 150) and 23 hours on Org Watch.

=== Payments made ===

Total so far: $16535.84

* $649.12 sent and received Saturday, January 2, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.02 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000754 BTC. Transaction available online at https://blockchain.com/btc/tx/b02de5ccd5a2c951e9b1970d0c35611c6cce64f30a2d161f85c6621448a66810 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $553.50 sent and received Tuesday, January 19, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.015 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $36,900.08 per BTC), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00003303 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/3323d8cc7be285672e269ab75dbf029fd3e411cecd23bee346c2d395cf650344 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $571.79 sent and received Saturday, February 20, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.01 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transition of $57,178.89 per BTC), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00003937 BTC ($2.25 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/f84705592e5fe15a90fe17deb9feb9c6d651953480b5bfb004429a91fbc1628d (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $600.84 sent and received Saturday, March 13, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.01 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $60,083.88 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee oof 0.00003597 BTC ($2.16 UD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/31e252b33120f723acbafe212d62255890aacc3473d779b5ba4a109d6d049744 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading). Sebastian received 84534.10 ARS for the Bitcoin.

* $633.61 sent and received Tuesday, April 13, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.01 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $63,361.19 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00002538 BTC ($2.06 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/87c7110616792a032e9cd3a8f675a25c406147a4ae4dad05d84782d0f3fb08fb (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $2652.15 sent and received Sunday, May 30, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.075 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $35,361.96 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00002187 BTC ($0.77 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/a152b939054723fcbe629d5ee10836d7c0b0e930767685d9bcb535d824420c35 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $3216.14 sent and received Friday, July 23, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.1 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $32,161,38 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000099 BTC ($0.03 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/2b5e396581080b82f423b874c06f4d9fc8037029284ff51fe08522b1561c333f (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $3077.05 sent and received Saturday, August 7, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.07 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $43,957.37 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000077 BTC ($0.03 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/850527f6a704d0bea3282e0a4688bd190eed2057565d78d6a372d8068818fc08 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* $2552.89 sent and received Tuesday, October 5, 2021. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.05 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $51,057.70 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000166 BTC ($0.08 USD). Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/3009b127ce1ae399eff66af21f3446abc9b3d9b919718aa44ba26b235ecedc83 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading).

* 2028.75 sent and received Tuesday, November 9, 2021. Transittion in Bitcoin for 0.03 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction of $67,624.97 per BTC) with a very small transaction fee of 0.00000489 BTC ($0.33 USD).

== Work in 2020 ==

Total money earned as income: $17432

Forward balance carried over from 2019: ($2878.30)

Payment made: $19808.35

Net payment due: ($5254.65)

=== Completed pages paid for by Vipul (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $3979

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_food_and_nutrition_in_China Timeline of food and nutrition in China]: $270. Completed January 1, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_food_and_nutrition_in_China&oldid=35663 (2020-01-01 13:23 UTC, 54035 bytes, 120 rows in full timeline, 6 rows in big picture, 4 sample questions)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Brookings_Institution Timeline of Brookings Institution]: $380. Completed January 24, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Brookings_Institution&oldid=36238 (2020-01-25 01:25 UTC, 74837 bytes, 138 rows in full timeline, 10 rows in big picture, 8 same questions, 3 graphs in visual data)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_NTT_Docomo Timeline of NTT Docomo]: $450. Completed March 14, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_NTT_Docomo&oldid=37921 (2020-03-14 23:59 UTC, 101879 bytes, 7 sample questions, 6 rows in big picture, 3 graphs, 236 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_5G Timeline of 5G]: $530. Completed March 19, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_5G&oldid=38100 (2020-03-20 0:12 UTC, 127871 bytes, 11 sample questions, big picture has three tables with 11, 5, and 6 rows respectively, 4 charts, 182 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_vegetarianism_and_veganism Timeline of vegetarianism and veganism]: $325. Completed April 19, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_vegetarianism_and_veganism&oldid=39455 (2020-04-19 14:37 UTC, 71730 bytes, 7 sample questions, 2 big pictures with 3 rows each, 4 visual data charts, 147 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malnutrition Timeline of malnutrition]: $440. Completed April 29, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malnutrition&oldid=40002 (2020-04-30 03:36 UTC, 122423 bytes, 10 sample questions, 4 rows in big picture, 1 visual data chart, 208 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_search_engine_optimization Timeline of search engine optimization]: $264. Completed July 7, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_search_engine_optimization (2020-07-07 18:42 UTC, 70962 bytes, 2 charts, 5 rows in big picture, 6 sample questions, 126 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_infection_control Timeline of infection control]: $520. Completed August 25, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_infection_control&oldid=43799 (2020-08-25 16:33 UTC, 136629 bytes, 10 sample questions, 4 rows in big picture, 2 charts, 283 row in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_tobacco_smoking_and_disease Timeline of tobacco smoking and disease]: $475. Completed September 5, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_tobacco_smoking_and_disease&oldid=44308 (2020-09-05 20:59 UTC, 117001 bytes, 8 sample questions, 4 and 9 rows in big pictures, 249 rows in full timeline)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_face_masks Timeline of face masks]: $325. Completed December 9, 2020. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_face_masks&oldid=47256 (2020-12-09 18:27 UTC, 75864 bytes, 10 sample questions, 6 big picture rows, 8 mask types, 3 visual data charts, 124 rows in full timeline)

=== Additions to existing pages (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $3652

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_WeWork Timeline of WeWork]: $127. Completed January 27, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_WeWork&type=revision&diff=36314&oldid=18466 Diff]. Increased from 34620 bytes to 69379 bytes. In addition to adding about 37 new rows, the changes include edits to existing rows, a new sample questions section with 5 questions, big picture expansion, and a visual data section with 3 charts

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_HTTPS_adoption Timeline of HTTPS adoption]: $25. Completed March 1, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_HTTPS_adoption&type=revision&diff=37449&oldid=35060 Diff]. Increased from 75358 bytes to 78883 bytes. The expansion incldes 2 new visual data charts and 8 new rows in the full timeline

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Quora Timeline of Quora]: $250. Completed March 15, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Quora&type=revision&diff=37985&oldid=18139 Diff]. Increased from 13206 bytes to 83250 bytes. The expansion includes 6 sample questions, a big picture section with 9 rows, 3 visual data charts, and substantial expansion of the full timeline from 25 rows to 142 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin Timeline of Bitcoin]: $370. Completed March 28, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bitcoin&type=revision&diff=38402&oldid=19707 Diff]. 11 sample questions, 4 new rows in big picture, 5 countries in summary by country, 6 visual data charts, number of rows in full timeline increased from 137 to 332; size increased from 75231 bytes to 162981 bytes. Also, updates to data and event types

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_recycling Timeline of recycling]: $250. Completed April 28, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_recycling&type=revision&diff=39955&oldid=17061 Diff]. 7 sample questions, 103 new rows in full timeline, and a visual data graph; size increased from 24821 bytes to 83572 bytes. Also, a new "Type of event" column

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_OpenAI Timeline of OpenAI]: $150. Completed May 23, 2020 (including some final edits from Vipul). [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_OpenAI&diff=prev&oldid=37190 Diff]. Increased from 45851 bytes to 78868 bytes. 9 sample questions, 2 visual data charts, number of rows in full timeline increased from 57 to 103 (with many additional rows on talk page). Also, a new "Domain" column to classify research work better

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_waste_management Timeline of waste management]: $300. Completed May 27, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_waste_management&type=revision&diff=41128&oldid=29403 Diff]. Increased from 32373 bytes to 116564 bytes. 10 sample questions, restructuring of big picture with multple groupings, and expansion of full timeline from 75 rows to 200 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GiveWell Timeline of GiveWell]: $200. Completed May 30, 2020 (including some final edits from Vipul). [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GiveWell&type=revision&diff=41176&oldid=21529 Diff]. Increased from 52050 bytes to 98903 bytes. 10 sample questions with answer guides (compared to original 4 without answer guides), restructuring of big picture to have a high level and highlights by year, visual data charts including Wikipedia views and Google Trends, and expansion of full timeline from 74 rows to 169 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_influenza Timeline of influenza]: $360. Completed June 30, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_influenza&type=revision&diff=42236&oldid=22873 Diff]. Increased from 47068 bytes to 147284 bytes. 7 sample questions, restructured big picture, added Google Trends, and full timeline expanded from 68 rows to 220 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_SpaceX Timeline of SpaceX]: $300. Completed July 8, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_SpaceX&type=revision&diff=42481&oldid=29219 diff]. Increased from 59665 bytes to 163945 bytes. 9 sample questions, 4 visual data charts, significant expansion of big picture, and full timeline increased from 86 rows to 188 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Netflix Timeline of Netflix]: $495. Completed September 26, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Netflix&diff=45028&oldid=23937 Diff]. Increased from 31160 bytes and 65 rows in full timeline to 200954 bytes and 299 rows in full timeline; also, 4 graphs, 16 sample questions, big picture expanded to 4 rows, and summary by year from 1997 to 2020

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Amazon Timeline of Amazon] (previously named timeline of Amazon): $750. Completed November 27, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Amazon&type=revision&diff=46865&oldid=21974 diff]. Increased from 41269 bytes and 63 rows to 326905 bytes and 418 rows; also, summaries by year (26 years), graphical data, sample questions, and updates to key developments part of big picture

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin Timeline of Bitcoin]: $75. Completed December 11, 2020. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bitcoin&type=revision&diff=47328&oldid=44393 Diff]. Increased from 166047 bytes to 186427 bytes; also, 5 new sample questions, updated visual data charts, 1 new year in summary by year, 25 new rows in full timeline

=== Org Watch ===

Total so far: $1230

* July: $140. 28 hours at $5/hour. On 2020-07-04, Sebastian, Issa, and Vipul met to discuss Org Watch data entry, after which Issa helped Sebastian get set up. Since then, Sebastian has been making commits in the sebastian branch; see https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-07-01&until=2020-07-31 for a list of commits. The last commit for the month was on 2020-07-27.

* August: $120. 24 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-08-01&until=2020-08-31 for more details. The first commit for the month was on 2020-08-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2020-08-30.

* September: $190. 38 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-09-01&until=2020-09-30 for more details. The first commit by Sebastian for the month was on 2020-09-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2020-09-21.

* October: $220. 44 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-10-01&until=2020-10-31 for more details. The first commit by Sebastian for the month was on 2020-10-03 and the last commit for the month was on 2020-10-31.

* November: $155. 31 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-11-01&until=2020-11-30 for more details. The first commit by Sebastian for the month was on 2020-11-02 and the last commit for the month was on 2020-11-23.

* December: $405. 81 hours at $5/hour. See https://github.com/riceissa/aiwatch/commits/sebastian?since=2020-12-01&until=2020-12-31 for more details. The first commmit by Sebastian for the month was on 2020-12-11 and the last commit for the month was on 2020-12-31.

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $8571

The rule of thumb for stipend is: $4/hour if all hours were spent on Timelines wiki, and more if some hours were spent outside (depending on the mix of work). Cap of $800/month, above which additional pay will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

* January: $720. Worked 180 hours on Timelines wiki.

* February: $712. Worked 178 hours, including 170 on Timelines wiki and 8 on Machinelearning subwiki.

* March: $830. Worked 212 hours, including 195 on Timelines wiki, 16 on Machinelearning subwiki, and 1 on reviewing a wikiHow article.

* April: $806. The payment is at $4/hour for all hours, plus an additional $6/hour for 9 hours for which the output is not directly compensated. Worked 188 hours, including 177 on Timelines wiki, 1 on Machinelearning subwiki, and 1 on reviewing a wikiHow article.

* May: $808. The payment is at $4/hour for all hours, plus an additional $5/hour for 20 hours for which the output is not directly compensated. Worked 177 hours, including 157 on Timelines wiki.

* June: $735. The payment is at $4/hour for all hours, plus an additional $5/hour for 15 hours for which the output is not directly compensated. Worked 165 hours, including 150 on Timelines wiki.

* July: $740. The payment is at $4/hour for all hours, plus an additional $5/hour for 12 hours for which output is not directly compensated. Worked 170 hours, including 130 on Timelines wiki and 28 on Org Watch.

* August: $612. The payment is at $4/hour for all 153 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 139 hours on Timelines wiki, 24 hours on Org Watch, and 9 hours on other activities. For Timelines wiki, the number of hours was in excess of the cap of 120 hours, so only the first 120 hours were eligible for stipend.

* September: $700. The payment is at $4/hour for all 160 hours eligible for stipend, plus 15 of 19 excess hours accumulated from last month. Total time spent was follows: 105 hours on Timelines wiki, 17 hours on Timelines wiki promotion, 38 hours on Org Watch, and 15 hours overage on Timelines wiki applied from the previous month. The reason only 15 hours rather than the full 19 hours of the past overage were applied is that with 15 hours, we already hit the cap of 120 hours on Timelines wiki for September.

* October: $688. The payment is at $4/hour for all 172 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 126 hours on Timelines wiki, 8 hours on Timelines wiki promotion, and 44 hours on Org Watch. For Timelines wiki, the number of hours was in excess of the cap of 120 hours, so only the first 120 hours were eligible for stipend. As of now, we have a total overage of 10 hours on Timelines wiki (4 hours carried over, and 6 more hours this month).

* November: $564. The payment is at $4/hour for all 131 hours eligible for stipend, plus all 10 excess hours accumulated from earlier.  Total time spent was as follows: 98.5 hours on Timelines wiki, 1.5 hours on Timelines wiki SEO research, and 31 hours on Org Watch.

* December: $656. The payment is at $4/hour for all 164 hours eligible for stipend. Total time spent was as follows: 83 hours on Timelines Wiki and 81 hours on Org Watch.

=== Payments made ===

Total so far: $19808.35

* $4950 sent Saturday, February 8, 2020, received Monday, February 10, 2020. Sent $4950 + $40 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 413424 ARS. The exchange rate used by Western Union matches the market exchange rate at the time (1 USD = 83.52 ARS).

* $190.13 sent and received Tuesday, June 2, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.02 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00002820 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/c2c3141e13437ff181cee7caceda69913d3715fc1af7a6bab0b3a8250a497413 (note that the transaction as shown in Blockchain appears to bundle this transaction with others that Coinbase may have executed simultaneously, so its details are a bit misleading). Sebastian received 22746 ARS for the 0.02 BTC.

* $1484.19 sent and received Wednesday, June 10, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.15 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00026640 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/8ac25795213e7032d055994f77b8163a74c345522f1dfb7c7899b47125f88ecf Sebastian received 171351.46 ARS for the 0.15 BTC.

* $4704.64 sent and received Wednesday, July 8, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.50 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00056663 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/53a5687a3c0f4f277f43f303c88fb127e603781cdc31221fc8fa9bb350fc3cd7 Sebastian received 526911.24 ARS for the 0.50 BTC.

* $5325.51 sent and received Wednesday, October 7, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.50 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00003696 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/8a7e84f79eee973b379ee8bf61688f5249564427130999d255d83c37955fc02b Sebastian received 764353.88 ARS for the 0.50 BTC.

* $2377.12 sent and received Thursday, November 5, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.15 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00009758 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/69a3321d6d4b0517ab7ec971bc17dd4a7e16d0fce2ac530bdde5aed31b156542 Sebastian received 344105.07 ARS for the 0.15 BTC when he sold it the next day (Friday, November 6, 2020).

* $69.64 sent and received Thursday, December 17, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.003 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00004023 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/b83a5d053dec8bd1540b5087d481b66d1c4107fb7c55adcda20ef0f2886b4970

* $707.12 sent and received Thursday, December 17, 2020. Transaction in Bitcoin for 0.03 BTC (and calculated in terms of USD value at time of transaction), with a very small transaction fee of 0.00004209 BTC. Transaction available online at https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/ba7235c0e3f236cb7fbe7fa2900530be3400c03c9c715a7210231cc739d870e3

== Work in 2019 ==

Total money earned as income: $19834

Forward balance carried over from 2018: ($3252.83)

Payment made: $19549.47

Net payment due: ($2878.30)

=== Completed pages paid for by Vipul (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $10284

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nuclear_medicine Timeline of nuclear medicine]: $200. Completed January 5, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nuclear_medicine&oldid=27354 (2019-01-06 00:37 UTC, 43697 bytes, 83 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_organ_transplantation Timeline of organ transplantation]: $165. Completed January 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_organ_transplantation&oldid=27436 (2019-01-12 19:30 UTC, 33522 bytes, 84 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_hemophilia Timeline of hemophilia]: $145. Completed January 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hemophilia&oldid=27438 (2019-01-12 23:04 UTC, 29673 bytes, 59 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_first_aid Timeline of first aid]: $115. Completed January 13, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_first_aid&oldid=27442 (2019-01-13 15:07 UTC, 23733 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nursing Timeline of nursing]: $200. Completed January 13, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nursing&oldid=27455 (2019-01-13 18:21 UTC, 39398 bytes, 87 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pneumonia Timeline of pneumonia]: $145. Completed January 31, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pneumonia&oldid=27698 (2019-01-31 23:21 UTC, 30481 bytes, 37 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_gastroenterology Timeline of gastroenterology]: $215. Completed March 1, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_gastroenterology&oldid=28502 (2019-03-01 19:04 UTC, 41841 bytes, 99 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_microscopy Timeline of microscopy]: $245. Completed March 3, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_microscopy&oldid=28555 (2019-03-04 01:53 UTC, 53496 bytes, 88 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_endocrinology Timeline of endocrinology]: $300. Completed March 5, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_endocrinology&oldid=28608 (2019-03-05 21:55 UTC, 61002 bytes, 153 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_Centers_for_Disease_Control_and_Prevention Timeline of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention]: $300. Completed March 7, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_Centers_for_Disease_Control_and_Prevention&oldid=28683 (2019-03-08 03:48 UTC, 63996 bytes, 166 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2018 Timeline of malaria in 2018]: $240. Completed March 8, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2018&oldid=28690 (2019-03-08 14:18 UTC, 68874 bytes, 78 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_assertive_community_treatment Timeline of assertive community treatment]: $105. Completed April 6, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_assertive_community_treatment&oldid=29082 (2019-04-06 18:06 UTC, 23226 bytes, 37 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_meditation Timeline of meditation]: $220. Completed April 18, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_meditation&oldid=29280 (2019-04-18 23:21 UTC, 45500 bytes, 97 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Malaria_Consortium Timeline of Malaria Consortium]: $110. Completed April 20, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Malaria_Consortium&oldid=29290 (2019-04-20 15:36 UTC, 22523 bytes, 43 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_United_States_Agency_for_International_Development Timeline of the United States Agency for International Development]: $165. Completed April 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_United_States_Agency_for_International_Development&oldid=29380 (2019-05-25 02:38 UTC, 33407 bytes, 63 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_World_Bank Timeline of the World Bank]: $250. Completed April 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_World_Bank&oldid=29368 (2019-04-24 20:01 UTC, 46614 bytes, 157 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Animal_Equality Timeline of Animal Equality]: $300. Completed May 2, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Animal_Equality&oldid=29520 (2019-05-02 23:00 UTC, 65176 bytes, 139 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cognitive_behavioral_therapy Timeline of cognitive behavioral therapy]: $160. Completed May 3, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cognitive_behavioral_therapy&oldid=29542 (2019-05-03 19:39 UTC, 33505 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GiveDirectly Timeline of GiveDirectly]: $170. Completed May 3, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GiveDirectly&oldid=29554 (2019-05-03 23:36 UTC, 34568 bytes, 70 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_index_funds Timeline of index funds]: $100. Completed May 10, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_index_funds&oldid=29746 (2019-05-10 19:05 UTC, 19028 bytes, 39 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Schistosomiasis_Control_Initiative Timeline of Schistosomiasis Control Initiative]: $120. Completed May 21, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Schistosomiasis_Control_Initiative&oldid=29996 (2019-05-21 19:39 UTC, 23403 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution_in_Delhi Timeline of pollution in Delhi]: $110. Completed May 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution_in_Delhi&oldid=30052 (2019-05-24 12:57 UTC, 20710 bytes, 35 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution Timeline of pollution]: $255. Completed May 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution&oldid=30060 (2019-05-24 18:51 UTC, 49461 bytes, 96 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Malaria_Atlas_Project Timeline of Malaria Atlas Project]: $150. Completed June 1, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Malaria_Atlas_Project&oldid=30191 (2019-06-01 18:53 UTC, 32358 bytes, 48 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cloud_computing Timeline of cloud computing]: $290. Completed June 9, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cloud_computing&oldid=30320 (2019-06-09 14:47 UTC, 59442 bytes, 119 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution_in_India Timeline of pollution in India]: $150. Completed June 15, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution_in_India&oldid=30523 (2019-06-15 22:51 UTC, 30333 bytes, 60 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution_in_China Timeline of pollution in China]: $200. Completed June 15, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution_in_China&oldid=30515 (2019-06-15 22:06 UTC, 41459 bytes, 95 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_AlphaGo Timeline of AlphaGo]: $115. Completed June 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_AlphaGo&oldid=30422 (2019-0614 14:04 UTC, 25746 bytes, 36 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Our_World_in_Data Timeline of Our World in Data]: $120. Completed June 27, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Our_World_in_Data&oldid=30829 (2019-06-27 17:32 UTC, 25,931 bytes, 54 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution_in_Beijing Timeline of pollution in Beijing]: $130. Completed July 5, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution_in_Beijing&oldid=31132 (2019-07-05 16:43 UTC, 26,184 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_DeepMind Timeline of DeepMind]: $285. Completed July 5, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_DeepMind&oldid=31145 (2019-07-05 19:01 UTC, 64,633 bytes, 71 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_content_delivery_networks Timeline of content delivery networks]: $110. Completed July 11, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_content_delivery_networks&oldid=31256 (2019-07-11 18:24 UTC, 20,303 bytes, 55 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_bicycle_sharing_systems Timeline of bicycle sharing systems]: $220. Completed July 18, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bicycle_sharing_systems&oldid=31521 (2019-07-18 15:21 UTC, 46,037 bytes, 99 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_International_Red_Cross_and_Red_Crescent_Movement Timeline of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement]: $380. Completed July 18, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_International_Red_Cross_and_Red_Crescent_Movement&oldid=31541 (2019-07-18 19:28 UTC, 78,196 bytes, 262 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_M%C3%A9decins_Sans_Fronti%C3%A8res Timeline of Mdecins Sans Frontires]: $250. Completed July 20, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_M%C3%A9decins_Sans_Fronti%C3%A8res&oldid=31669 (2019-07-21 02:19 UTC, 52,782 bytes, 128 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Y_Combinator Timeline of Y Combinator]: $295. Completed July 27, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Y_Combinator&oldid=32006 (2019-07-27 21:10 UTC, 63,084 bytes, 116 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_8chan Timeline of 8chan]: $164. Completed August 21, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_8chan&oldid=32533 (2019-08-21 15:29 UTC, 33819 bytes, 41 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Neuralink Timeline of Neuralink]: $95. Completed September 23, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Neuralink&oldid=33398 (2019-09-23 20:28 UTC, 19744 bytes, 31 rows in full timeline, 5 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_food_and_nutrition_in_India Timeline of food and nutrition in India]: $320. Completed September 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_food_and_nutrition_in_India&oldid=33410 (2019-09-24 20:48 UTC, 59249 bytes, 117 rows in full timeline, 8 rows in big picture). This is the first of a series of timelines of food and nutrition by country, and is to be followed by similar timelines for other countries such as China and Japan. Payment is a little higher than normal for this timeline as it is the first of its series.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_WikiLeaks Timeline of WikiLeaks]: $350. Completed September 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_WikiLeaks&oldid=33411 (2019-09-24 20:38 UTC, 69472 bytes, 125 rows in full timeline, 3 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_bicycle_transportation Timeline of bicycle transportation]: $300. Completed October 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bicycle_transportation&oldid=33787 (2019-10-13 04:03 UTC, 66126 bytes, 171 rows in full timeline, 5 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_startup_incubators_and_accelerators Timeline of startup incubators and accelerators]: $240. Completed October 24, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_startup_incubators_and_accelerators&oldid=34067 (2019-10-24 19:13 UTC, 51399 bytes, 95 rows in full timeline, 7 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Cloudflare Timeline of Cloudflare]: $125. Completed October 26, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Cloudflare&oldid=34123 (2019-10-26 13:33 UTC, 28630 bytes, 41 rows in full timeline, 6 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Combined_timeline_of_malaria_organizations Combined timeline of malaria organizations] $400. Completed November 4, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Combined_timeline_of_malaria_organizations&oldid=34381 (2019-11-04 14:57 UTC, 65594 bytes, 20 rows (one per year from 2000 to 2019) and 5 columns (one for each of the five leading organizations), 10 rows in big picture). The payment amount is higher than normal for a timeline of this size; the reason for the greater payment is to compensate for the effort of trying out the new format, as well as for the related expansions of the timelines of the organizations done along with work on this combined timeline.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Helen_Keller_International Timeline of Helen Keller International]: $220. Completed November 10, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Helen_Keller_International&oldid=34547 (2019-11-11 00:17 UTC, 43108 bytes, 109 rows in full timeline, 5 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Infosys Timeline of Infosys]: $180. Completed November 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Infosys&oldid=34595 (2019-11-12 18:30 UTC, 35809 bytes, 101 rows in full timeline, 4 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Tumblr Timeline of Tumblr]: $160. Completed November 30, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Tumblr&oldid=35007 (2019-11-30 14:31 UTC, 37233 bytes, 71 rows in full timeline, 5 rows in big picture)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Reliance_Industries_Limited Timeline of Reliance Industries Limited]: $240. Completed December 9, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Reliance_Industries_Limited&oldid=35199 (2019-12-09 19:47 UTC, 48373 bytes, 128 rows in full timeline, 4 and 7 rows respectively in two versions of the big picture, 5 sample questions)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Tata_Group Timeline of Tata Group]: $340. Completed December 12, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Tata_Group&oldid=35294 (2019-12-13 23:24 UTC, 74537 bytes, 172 rows in full timeline, 3 rows in big picture, 6 sample questions)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Speculative_timeline_of_future_malaria_events Speculative timeline of future malaria events]: $120. Completed December 14, 2019. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Speculative_timeline_of_future_malaria_events&oldid=35348 (2019-12-14 16:58 UTC, 23858 bytes, 3 rows in big picture, 4 sample questions)

=== Additions to existing pages (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $1510

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Lyft Timeline of Lyft]: $75. Completed April 15, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Lyft&type=revision&diff=29209&oldid=11803 Diff]. Increased from 22,621 bytes to 41,499 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_SpaceX Timeline of SpaceX]: $95. Completed April 15, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_SpaceX&type=revision&diff=29219&oldid=20741 Diff]. Increased from 36,757 bytes to 59,665 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Uber Timeline of Uber]: $105. Completed April 15, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Uber&type=revision&diff=29201&oldid=21595 Diff]. Increased from 97,041 bytes to 123,184 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_animal_testing Timeline of animal testing]: $15. Completed April 28, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_animal_testing&type=revision&diff=29443&oldid=26640 Diff]. Increased from 38,518 bytes to 41,582 bytes, with 4 rows added.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GitHub Timeline of GitHub]: $110. Completed May 26, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GitHub&type=revision&diff=30080&oldid=23707 Diff]. Increased from 62,157 bytes to 101,657 bytes, with 39 rows added.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_OpenAI Timeline of OpenAI]: $70. Completed July 10, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_OpenAI&type=revision&diff=31243&oldid=29270 Diff]. Increased from 28,864 bytes to 44,187 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_online_food_delivery Timeline of online food delivery]: $175. Completed July 24, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_online_food_delivery&type=revision&diff=31862&oldid=15864 Diff]. Increased from 30,464 bytes to 71,762 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pollution Timeline of pollution]: $33. Completed July 31, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pollution&type=revision&diff=32148&oldid=31131 Diff]. Increased from 49,460 bytes to 56,235 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Pinterest Timeline of Pinterest]: $95. Completed August 24, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Pinterest&type=revision&diff=32626&oldid=12850 Diff]. Increased from 51,453 bytes to 82,654 bytes; about 31 new rows in full timeline and 1 new row in big picture

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Wi-Fi Timeline of Wi-Fi]: $35. Completed July 31, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Wi-Fi&type=revision&diff=32166&oldid=29432 Diff]. Increased from 30,631 bytes to 37,058 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Reddit Timeline of Reddit]: $135. Completed September 23, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Reddit&type=revision&diff=33904&oldid=25173 Diff]. Increased from 40,195 bytes to 79,371 bytes; 2 rows added to big picture and about 40 rows added to full timeline (along with edits to existing rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_mobile_telephony Timeline of mobile telephony]: $140. Completed October 19, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_mobile_telephony&type=revision&diff=33936&oldid=18670 Diff]. Increased from 55,266 bytes to 84,363 bytes, with about 63 new rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Airbnb Timeline of Airbnb]: $135. Completed October 19, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Airbnb&type=revision&diff=33913&oldid=11658 Diff]. Increased from 46,762 bytes to 88,268 bytes; 2 rows added to big picture and about 39 rows added to full timeline (along with edits to existing rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Slack Timeline of Slack]: $105. Completed October 20, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Slack&type=revision&diff=33955&oldid=18085 Diff]. Increased from 51,797 bytes to 86,357 bytes; 2 rows added to big picture and about 30 rows added to full timeline (along with edits to existing rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2018 Timeline of malaria in 2018]: $15. Completed October 21, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2018&type=revision&diff=33983&oldid=28690 Diff]. Increased from 68,874 bytes to 72,602 bytes; 4 rows added to full timeline (along with edits to existing rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_The_Global_Fund_to_Fight_AIDS,_Tuberculosis_and_Malaria Timeline of The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria]: $7. Completed October 21, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_The_Global_Fund_to_Fight_AIDS%2C_Tuberculosis_and_Malaria&type=revision&diff=33988&oldid=33950 Diff]. Increased from 30,230 bytes to 31,501 bytes; 2 rows added to full timeline (along with edits to existing rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Against_Malaria_Foundation Timeline of Against Malaria Foundation]: $75. Completed December 7, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Against_Malaria_Foundation&oldid=35171 Diff]. Increased from 55776 bytes to 67997 bytes. In addition to adding new rows, the changes also include the addition of a location column and redefinition of event types for more consistency with other timelines and with additional rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators Timeline of Animal Charity Evaluators]: $90. Completed December 7, 2019. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators&type=revision&diff=35161&oldid=25570 Diff]. Increased from 24906 bytes to 40101 bytes. In addition to adding new rows, the changes also include 4 sample questions and redefinition of event types for more consistency with other timelines and with additional rows

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $8040

From April 2019 onward, the rule of thumb for stipend is: $4/hour if all hours were spent on Timelines wiki, and more if some hours were spent outside (depending on the mix of work). Cap of $800/month, above which additional pay will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

* January: $450. Worked 100 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* February: $650. Worked 160 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki.

* March: $550. Worked 125 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* April: $660. Worked 165 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki.

* May: $680. Worked 170 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki.

* June: $770. Worked 185 hours, including 180 hours on Timelines wiki.

* July: $780. Worked 195 hours, but no work outside Timlines wiki.

* August: $580. Worked 145 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki. Number of hours this month is lower than the typical monthly amount, due to a vacation of about one week

* September: $740. Worked 185 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki.

* October: $700. Worked 175 hours, but no work outside Timelines wiki.

* November: $780. Worked 185 hours, including some time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* December: $700. Worked 165 hours on Timelines wiki, and a number of hours on preparatory work for other projects that will start in 2020.

=== Payments made ===

Total paid: $19459.57

The amount a payment is for will be treated as the value in USD at market rates of the received ARS at time of exchange. Thus, Vipul will bear the cost of transfer overhead (both exchange rate costs and overhead).

* $4145 sent Saturday, March 9, 2019, received Monday, March 11, 2019. Sent $4300 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 172717 ARS. $4145 is calculated as 172717 ARS at the exchange rate of 1 ARS = 0.024 USD.

* $4705 sent Sunday, May 19, 2019, received Monday, May 20, 2019. Sent $4750 + $20 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 212918.23 ARS. $4705 is calculated as 212918.23 ARS at the exchange rate of 1 ARS = 0.0221 USD.

* $50 sent Friday, August 2, 2019, received Friday, August 2, 2019 via PayPal. Amount received was $47.

* $33.45 returned by Sebastian Saturday, August 3, 2019 via PayPal. Amount sent was $35.30; amount received was $33.45 after subtracting fee of $1.85.

* $692.92 sent Sunday, August 11, 2019, received Monday, August 12, 2019. Sent $700 + $8 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 31496.46 ARS. $692.92 is calculated as 31496.46 ARS at the exchange rate of 1 ARS = 0.022 USD.

* $4950 sent Sunday, August 25, 2019, received Monday, August 26, 2019. Sent $4950 + $20 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 271770.03 ARS. The exchange rate used by Western Union matches the market exchange rate at the time.

* $4950 sent Saturday, December 14, 2019, received Monday, December 16, 2019. Sent $4950 + $40 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 354370.50 ARS. The exchange rate used by Western Union matches the market exchange rate at the time.

== Work in 2018 ==

Total money earned as income: $18876

Forward balance carried over from 2017: ($1571.91)

Payment made: $20556.92

Net payment due: ($3252.83)

=== Completed pages paid for by Vipul (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $12446

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Nokia Timeline of Nokia]: $280. Completed March 7, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Nokia&oldid=20708 (2018-03-08 06:00 UTC, 75540 bytes, 102 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GiveWell Timeline of GiveWell]: $240. Completed March 10, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GiveWell&oldid=20815 (2018-03-10 20:28 UTC, 51300 bytes, 73 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_money_transfer Timeline of money transfer]: $200. Completed March 10, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nuclear_energy&oldid=19451 (2017-12-29 07:34 UTC, 36666 bytes, 67 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Skype Timeline of Skype]: $180. Completed March 9, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Skype&oldid=20797 (2018-03-10 05:37 UTC, 54793 bytes, 101 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Samsung Timeline of Samsung]: $230. Completed March 11, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Samsung&oldid=20850 (2018-03-11 20:23 UTC, 60379 bytes, 108 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_epidemiology Timeline of epidemiology]: $105. Completed March 1, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_epidemiology&oldid=20494 (2018-03-01 05:07 UTC, 22309 bytes, 37 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_surgery Timeline of surgery]: $370. Completed March 3, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_surgery&oldid=20561 (208-03-03 17:33 UTC, 82515 bytes, 141 rows

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Roscosmos Timeline of Roscosmos]: $150. Completed March 8, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Roscosmos&oldid=20734 (2018-03-09 00:47 UTC, 37715 bytes, 45 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_water_desalination Timeline of water desalination]: $105. Compleyed March 5, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_water_desalination&oldid=20632 (2018-03-05 22:51 UTC, 23138 bytes, 52 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_rail_transport Timeline of rail transport]: $115. Completed March 11, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_rail_transport&oldid=20851 (2018-03-11 20:26 UTC, 24897 bytes, 60 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_SpaceX Timeline of SpaceX]: $125. Completed March 8, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_SpaceX&oldid=20741 (2018-03-09 01:05 UTC, 36757 bytes, 69 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_psychoactive_drugs Timeline of psychoactive drugs]: $130. Completed March 9, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_psychoactive_drugs&oldid=20804 (2018-03-10 06:24 UTC, 28516 bytes, 60 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Pandora_Radio Timeline of Pandora Radio]: $110. Completed March 11, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Pandora_Radio&oldid=21067 (2018-03-11 19:48 UTC, 32861 bytes, 67 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_virology Timeline of virology]: $350. Completed March 18, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_virology&oldid=21045 (2018-03-18 20:24 UTC, 87269 bytes, 137 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_high-speed_rail Timeline of high-speed rail]: $150. Completed March 19, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_high-speed_rail&oldid=21060 (2018-03-19 20:15 UTC, 29199 bytes, 56 rows; also two graphs)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_IBM Timeline of IBM]: $265. Completed April 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_IBM&oldid=22058 (2018-04-30 23:12 UTC, 73275 bytes, 239 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_telephony_in_Norway Timeline of telephony in Norway]: $100. Completed April 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_telephony_in_Norway&oldid=22036 (2018-04-30 19:21 UTC, 19944 bytes, 68 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cable_transport Timeline of cable transport]: $100. Completed May 4, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cable_transport&oldid=22153 (2018-05-04 19:59 UTC, 21946 bytes, 49 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_bacteriology Timeline of bacteriology]: $395. Completed May 8, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bacteriology&oldid=22250 (2018-05-08 19:54 UTC, 82793 bytes, 113 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_diabetes Timeline of diabetes]: $340. Completed May 10, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_diabetes&oldid=22301 (2018-05-10 17:57 UTC, 68279 bytes, 162 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_health_software Timeline of health software]: $100. Completed May 14, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_health_software&oldid=22396 (2018-05-14 22:33 UTC, 20881 bytes, 42 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_drug_development Timeline of drug development]: $160. Completed May 25, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_drug_development&oldid=22706 (2018-05-26 01:21 UTC, 32381 bytes, 70 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_lithium Timeline of lithium]: $110. Completed May 26, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_lithium&oldid=22742 (2018-05-26 23:24 UTC, 21945 bytes, 37 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Cisco_Systems Timeline of Cisco Systems]: $140. Completed May 26, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Cisco_Systems&oldid=22760 (2018-05-27 05:51 UTC, 32444 bytes, 73 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Evidence_Action Timeline of Evidence Action]: $100. Completed May 26, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Evidence_Action&oldid=22762 (2018-05-27 06:00 UTC, 19107 bytes, 28 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Wi-Fi Timeline of Wi-Fi]: $145. Completed May 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Wi-Fi&oldid=22834 (2018-05-30 22:21 UTC, 30711 bytes, 70 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Oracle_Corporation Timeline of Oracle Corporation]: $135. Completed May 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Oracle_Corporation&oldid=22836 (2018-05-30 23:07 UTC, 30281 bytes, 73 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_medical_websites Timeline of medical websites]: $150. Completed May 31, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_medical_websites&oldid=22866 (2018-05-31 22:54 UTC, 31295 bytes, 60 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_HIV/AIDS Timeline of HIV/AIDS]: $285. Completed June 1, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_HIV/AIDS&oldid=22888 (2018-06-01 17:08 UTC, 56131 bytes, 134 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_vaccines Timeline of vaccines]: $200. Completed June 1, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_vaccines&oldid=22889 (2018-06-01 17:16 UTC, 39176 bytes, 82 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_palliative_care Timeline of palliative care]: $190. Completed July 22, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_palliative_care&oldid=24167 (2018-07-22 23:31 UTC, 38393 bytes, 83 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_antibiotics Timeline of antibiotics]: $350. Completed July 23, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_antibiotics&oldid=24175 (2018-07-23 13:06 UTC, 93240 bytes, 130 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_steel Timeline of steel]: $225. Completed August 4, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_steel&oldid=24527 (2018-08-04 19:14 UTC, 47654 bytes, 99 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nuclear_waste_management Timeline of nuclear waste management]: $160. Completed June 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nuclear_waste_management&oldid=23562 (2018-06-30 23:48 UTC, 34182 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_silicon Timeline of silicon]: $95. Completed July 4, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_silicon&oldid=23664 (2018-07-04 23:58 UTC, 21636 bytes, 35 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Ericsson Timeline of Ericsson]: $110. Completed July 23, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Ericsson&oldid=24183 (2018-07-23 15:34 UTC, 25617 bytes, 78 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_water_transport Timeline of water transport]: $200. Completed July 11, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_water_transport&oldid=23847 (2018-07-11 23:19 UTC, 51882 bytes, 61 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_aluminium Timeline of aluminium]: $170. Completed August 4, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_aluminium&oldid=24528 (2018-08-04 19:18 UTC, 80 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_Humane_Society_of_the_United_States Timeline of the Humane Society of the United States]: $160. Completed July 23, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_Humane_Society_of_the_United_States&oldid=24195 (2018-07-23 18:53 UTC, 32697 bytes, 74 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Mercy_For_Animals Timeline of Mercy For Animals]: $155. Completed July 23, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Mercy_For_Animals&oldid=24213 (2018-07-23 23:41 UTC, 30392 bytes, 43 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cobalt Timeline of cobalt]: $85. Completed July 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cobalt&oldid=24413 (2018-07-30 23:45 UTC, 33 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_The_Humane_League Timeline of The Humane League]: $100. Completed August 5, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_The_Humane_League&oldid=24543 (2018-08-06 00:39 UTC, 20537 bytes, 36 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_titanium Timeline of titanium]: $120. Completed August 10, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_titanium&oldid=24632 (2018-08-11 03:21 UTC, 25098 bytes, 53 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_medical_education Timeline of medical education]: $180. Completed July 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_medical_education&oldid=24403 (2018-07-29 18:37 UTC, 36146 bytes, 69 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Direct_Action_Everywhere Timeline of Direct Action Everywhere]: $125. Completed August 16, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Direct_Action_Everywhere&oldid=24747 (2018-08-16 23:16 UTC, 24513 bytes, 35 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_dentistry Timeline of dentistry]: $180. Completed August 17, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_dentistry&oldid=24719 (2018-08-17 21:02 UTC, 41431 bytes, 110 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators Timeline of Animal Charity Evaluators]: $120. Completed August 17, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Animal_Charity_Evaluators&oldid=24728 (2018-08-17 23:45 UTC, 23804 bytes, 35 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Abdul_Latif_Jameel_Poverty_Action_Lab Timeline of Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab]: $95. Completed August 19, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Abdul_Latif_Jameel_Poverty_Action_Lab&oldid=24753 (2018-08-19 23:57 UTC, 19306 bytes, 38 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_parasitology Timeline of parasitology]: $340. Completed August 19, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_parasitology&oldid=24761 (2018-08-20 02:45 UTC, 76708 bytes, 149 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nickel Timeline of nickel]: $95. Completed August 27, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nickel&oldid=24910 (2018-08-28 00:25 UTC, 21879 bytes, 47 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_tungsten Timeline of tungsten]: $85. Completed August 27, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_tungsten&oldid=24916 (2018-08-28 02:40 UTC, 19886 bytes, 32 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_People_for_the_Ethical_Treatment_of_Animals Timeline of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals]: $135. Completed August 28, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_People_for_the_Ethical_Treatment_of_Animals&oldid=24921 (2018-08-28 16:21 UTC, 26583 bytes, 56 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_immunology Timeline of immunology]: $195. Completed August 28, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_immunology&oldid=24935 (2018-08-29 02:08 UTC, 44881 bytes, 85 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_healthcare_in_Pakistan Timeline of healthcare in Pakistan]: $105. Completed September 22, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_healthcare_in_Pakistan&oldid=25576 (2018-09-22 15:22 UTC, 20800 bytes, 41 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_healthcare_in_Bangladesh Timeline of healthcare in Bangladesh]: $95. Completed September 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_healthcare_in_Bangladesh&oldid=25733 (2018-09-29 13:51 UTC, 18972 bytes, 45 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_radiology Timeline of radiology]: $150. Completed September 28, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_radiology&oldid=25708 (2018-09-28 19:39 UTC, 32041 bytes, 59 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_anesthesiology Timeline of anesthesiology]: $170. Completed September 26, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_anesthesiology&oldid=25659 (2018-09-26 19:59 UTC, 33123 bytes, 91 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_ophthalmology Timeline of ophthalmology]: $130. Completed September 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_ophthalmology&oldid=25763 (2018-09-30 02:12 UTC, 24246 bytes, 56 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_Great_Ape_Project Timeline of the Great Ape Project]: $100. Completed September 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_Great_Ape_Project&oldid=25751 (2018-09-29 22:19 UTC, 20650 bytes, 31 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_bioethics Timeline of bioethics]: $160. Completed September 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bioethics&oldid=25753 (2018-09-29 22:38 UTC, 30391 bytes, 66 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_solar_power Timeline of solar power]: $185. Completed September 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_solar_power&oldid=25781 (2018-10-01 00:57 UTC, 36986 bytes, 71 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pediatrics Timeline of pediatrics]: $120. Completed September 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pediatrics&oldid=25827 (2018-10-01 04:12 UTC, 24489 bytes, 52 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_hepatology Timeline of hepatology]: $130. Completed September 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hepatology&oldid=25832 (2018-10-01 04:21 UTC, 27605 bytes, 54 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Cruelty_Free_International Timeline of Cruelty Free International]: $65. Completed October 6, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Cruelty_Free_International&oldid=26022 (2018-10-07 03:42 UTC, 13229 bytes, 25 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_psychiatry Timeline of psychiatry]: $300. Completed October 7, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_psychiatry&oldid=26065 (2018-10-08 04:42 UTC, 78008 bytes, 118 rows of which 46 were from Wikipedia)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_American_Anti-Vivisection_Society Timeline of the American Anti-Vivisection Society]: $75. Completed October 12, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_American_Anti-Vivisection_Society&oldid=26236 (2018-10-13 06:03 UTC, 15951 bytes, 39 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_transfusion_medicine Timeline of transfusion medicine]: $128. Completed October 12, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_transfusion_medicine&oldid=26203 (2018-10-12 16:44 UTC, 26597 bytes, 62 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_hematology Timeline of hematology]: $275. Completed October 25, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hematology&oldid=26579 (2018-10-26 00:55 UTC, 59270 bytes, 119 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_Nonhuman_Rights_Project Timeline of the Nonhuman Rights Project]: $95. Completed October 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_Nonhuman_Rights_Project&oldid=26692 (2018-10-30 03:37 UTC, 19221 bytes, 36 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_urology Timeline of urology]: $95. Completed October 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_urology&oldid=26695 (2018-10-30 04:14 UTC, 19892 bytes, 56 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_gene_therapy Timeline of gene therapy]: $185. Completed October 30, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_gene_therapy&oldid=26709 (2018-10-30 20:46 UTC, 41902 bytes, 67 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_orthopedics Timeline of orthopedics]: $118. Completed October 31, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_orthopedics&oldid=26737 (2018-10-31 22:32 UTC, 24179 bytes, 61 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_animal_testing Timeline of animal testing]: $185. Completed October 28, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_animal_testing&oldid=26640 (2018-10-28 21:57 UTC, 38518 bytes, 89 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_World_Health_Organization Timeline of the World Health Organization]: $270. Completed December 21, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_World_Health_Organization&oldid=27091 (2018-12-21 2015 UTC, 59523 bytes, 124 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Farm_Sanctuary Timeline of Farm Sanctuary]: $75. Completed October 29, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Farm_Sanctuary&oldid=26698 (2018-10-30 04:36 UTC, 15659 bytes, 30 rows)

=== Completed pages paid for by Peter (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $250

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Zika_virus Timeline of Zika virus]: $250. Completed July 22, 2018. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Zika_virus&oldid=24155 (2018-07-22 22:04 UTC, 26011 bytes, 57 rows)

=== Additions to existing pages (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $485

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_salesforce.com Timeline of salesforce.com]: $12. Completed January 3, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_salesforce.com&type=revision&diff=19549&oldid=18711 Diff]. Increased from 63,311 bytes to 66,475 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_senescence_research Timeline of senescence research]: $12. Completed January 3, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_senescence_research&type=revision&diff=19553&oldid=11852 Diff]. Increased from 24,383 bytes to 26,962 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_measles Timeline of measles]: $3. Completed January 3, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_measles&type=revision&diff=19564&oldid=11874 Diff]. Increased from 22,651 bytes to 23,270 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bitcoin Timeline of Bitcoin]: $70. Completed January 31, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Bitcoin&type=revision&diff=19707&oldid=16223 Diff]. Increased from 58,300 bytes to 75,231 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_cardiovascular_disease Timeline of cardiovascular disease]: $26. Completed March 1, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_cardiovascular_disease&type=revision&diff=20432&oldid=11900 Diff]. Increased from 34,495 bytes to 40,257 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_poliomyelitis Timeline of poliomyelitis]: $25. Completed April 5, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_poliomyelitis&type=revision&diff=21384&oldid=13322 Diff]. Increased from 24,423 bytes to 29,093 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_GiveWell Timeline of GiveWell]: $10. Completed April 12, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_GiveWell&type=revision&diff=21529&oldid=19667 Diff]. Increased 49,957 bytes to 52,050 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_hygiene Timeline of hygiene]: $8. Completed April 13, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hygiene&type=revision&diff=21567&oldid=17796 Diff]. Increased from 26,861 bytes to 28,349 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Facebook Timeline of Facebook]: $56. Completed April 15, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Facebook&type=revision&diff=21592&oldid=17146 Diff]. Increased from 149,821 bytes to 167,737 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Uber Timeline of Uber]: $52. Completed April 15, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Uber&type=revision&diff=21595&oldid=17088 Diff]. Increased from 80,804 bytes to 97,041 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Innovations_for_Poverty_Action Timeline of Innovations for Poverty Action]: $25. Completed April 19, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Innovations_for_Poverty_Action&type=revision&diff=21737&oldid=18824 Diff]. Increased from 5,256 bytes to 9,413 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Amazon Timeline of Amazon]: $37. Completed April 28, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Amazon&type=revision&diff=21974&oldid=15863 Diff]. Increased from 29,817 bytes to 41,269 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Spotify Timeline of Spotify]: $26. Completed May 12, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Spotify&type=revision&diff=22343&oldid=18473 Diff]. Increased from 41,067 bytes to 49,875 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Netflix Timeline of Netflix]: $35. Completed July 15, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Netflix&type=revision&diff=23937&oldid=13850 Diff]. Increased from 21,803 bytes to 31,153 bytes.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Facebook Timeline of Facebook]: $20. Completed December 12, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Facebook&type=revision&diff=26995&oldid=21985 Diff]. Increased from 170,603 bytes to 177,502 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Instagram Timeline of Instagram]: $33. Completed December 17, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Instagram&type=revision&diff=27071&oldid=13997 Diff]. Increased from 28,786 bytes to 39,203 bytes

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2017 Timeline of malaria in 2017]: $35. Completed December 21, 2018. [https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2017&type=revision&diff=27093&oldid=15617 Diff]. Increased from 28,094 bytes to 35,336 bytes

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $5695

* January: $150 (worked 30% of the month)

* February: $500. Worked 160 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* March: $500. Worked 175 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* April: $500. Worked 165 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* May: $625. Worked 190 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* June: $625. Worked 175 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* July: $700. Worked 215 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* August: $625. Worked 170 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* September: $625. Worked 170 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* October: $650. Worked 180 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki.

* November: $75. Worked 20 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki. Most of the month was spent on travel to Europe

* December: $120. Worked 30 hours, including time spent outside Timelines wiki. Most of the month was spent on sick leave

=== Payments made ===

Total paid: $20556.92

Starting 2018, the amount a payment is for will be treated as the value in USD at market rates of the received ARS at time of exchange. Thus, Vipul will bear the cost of transfer overhead (both exchange rate costs and overhead).

* $4175 sent December 30, 2017, received January 2, 2018. Sent $4447.81 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 80000 ARS. $4175 is calculated as 80000 ARS at the time of exchange.

* $3960 sent March 11, 2018, received March 12, 2018. Sent $4035.73 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 80010 ARS. $3960 is calculated as 80010 ARS at the of exchange.

* $3950.52 sent June 2, 2018, received June 4, 2018. Sent $4000 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 98763.17 ARS. $3950.52 is calculated as 98763.17 ARS at the time of exchange (1 ARS = 0.040 USD).

* $4253 sent August 4, 2018, received August 13, 2018. Sent $4500 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 121517 ARS. $4253 is calculated as 121517 ARS using the exchange rate of 1 ARS = 0.035 USD (the exchange rate around the middle of the time between sending and receiving)

* $4218.60 sent October 13, 2018, received October 16, 2018. Sent $4300 + $30 transaction fees via Western Union, receiver got 153599.22. $4219 is calculated at 153599.22 ARS using the exchange rate of 1 ARS = 0.027 USD (the exchange rate at the time of receiving)

== Work in 2017 ==

Note: 2017 data is not yet final, since work done in December has not yet been entered.

=== Summary ===

Total money earned as income: $11322

Forward balance carried over from 2016: ($510.37)

Payment made: $12383.54

Net payment due: ($1571.91)

=== Completed pages (Wikipedia) ===

Total so far: $1065

* Timeline of measles: $125. Completed January 9, 2017.

* Timeline of poliomyelitis: $130. Completed January 14, 2017.

* Timeline of plague: $145. Completed January 31, 2017. Includes five graphs.

* Timeline of yellow fever: $140. Completed February 21, 2017. Includes two graphs.

* Timeline of typhus: $150. Completed February 24, 2017. Includes four graphs.

* Timeline of hepatitis: $170. Completed February 28, 2017. Includes ten graphs.

* Timeline of Chagas disease: $105. Completed March 1, 2017. Includes two graphs.

* Timeline of typhoid fever: $100. Completed March 4, 2017. Includes two graphs.

=== Completed pages paid for by Vipul (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $35466

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_National_Institutes_of_Health Timeline of the National Institutes of Health]: $250. Completed April 3, 2017. Includes 29 graphs (1 cumulative, 28 for the individual institutes).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_DNA_sequencing Timeline of DNA sequencing]: $170. Completed April 4, 2017. Includes 8 graphs.

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_mosquito_net_distribution Timeline of mosquito net distribution]: $160. Completed April 15, 2017. Includes 10 graphs. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_mosquito_net_distribution&oldid=13248

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_The_Global_Fund_to_Fight_AIDS%2C_Tuberculosis_and_Malaria Timeline of malaria vaccine]: $80. Completed April 24, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_vaccine&oldid=13472

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_The_Global_Fund_to_Fight_AIDS%2C_Tuberculosis_and_Malaria Timeline of The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria]: $190. Includes 8 graphs. Completed May 15, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_The_Global_Fund_to_Fight_AIDS,_Tuberculosis_and_Malaria&oldid=13861

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_UNICEF Timeline of UNICEF]: $200. Includes 7 graphs. Completed May 29, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_UNICEF&oldid=14185

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Comparison_of_methods_of_malaria_control Comparison of methods of malaria control]: $120. Completed April 27, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Comparison_of_methods_of_malaria_control&oldid=13547

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Comparison_of_measures_of_abundance_of_malaria Comparison of measures of abundance of malaria]: $75. Completed May 7, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Comparison_of_measures_of_abundance_of_malaria&oldid=13671

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Gavi%2C_the_Vaccine_Alliance Timeline of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance]: $225. Completed June 4, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Gavi,_the_Vaccine_Alliance&oldid=14400 and pay also includes related graphs uploaded to https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Global_health_visual_data_repository (section GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_CRISPR Timeline of CRISPR]: $160. Completed June 11, 2017.  Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_CRISPR&oldid=14655

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2017 Timeline of malaria in 2017]: $135. Completed July 13, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2017&oldid=15617 (28094 bytes, 2017-07-13 19:48 UTC).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2016 Timeline of malaria in 2016]: $175. Completed July 14, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2016&oldid=15659 (36442 bytes, 2017-07-15 04:36 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Ebola_virus_disease Timeline of Ebola virus disease]: $160. Completed July 24, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Ebola_virus_disease&oldid=15918 (30442 bytes, 2017-07-24 22:47 UTC). Includes three graphs (two that use the same data on linear and log scale)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2014 Timeline of malaria in 2014]: $130. Completed August 5, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2014&oldid=16322 (26188 bytes, 2017-08-06 04:12 UTC).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_mobile_telephony Timeline of mobile telephony]: $238. Completed August 23, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_mobile_telephony&oldid=16990 (46041 bytes, 2017-08-24 03:53 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_recycling Timeline of recycling]: $131. Completed August 26, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_recycling&oldid=17061 (24821 bytes, 2017-08-27 05:23 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_pipeline_transport Timeline of pipeline transport]: $113. Completed August 26, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_pipeline_transport&oldid=17051 (21978 bytes, 2017-08-27 03:38 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_waste_management Timeline of waste management]: $163. Completed August 28, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_waste_management&oldid=17062 (31199 bytes, 2017-08-28 08:32 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_roads Timeline of roads]: $171. Completed August 29, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_roads&oldid=17067 (32589 bytes, 2017-08-29 19:52 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Slack Timeline of Slack]: $140. Completed October 16, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Slack&oldid=17697 (45392 bytes, 2017-10-17 00:39 UTC, 39 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_sanitation Timeline of sanitation]: $200. Completed September 28, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_sanitation&oldid=17334 (40165 bytes, 2017-09-28 20:25 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_water_treatment Timeline of water treatment]: $160. Completed September 29, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_water_treatment&oldid=17375 (31859 bytes, 2017-09-29 18:08 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_water_supply Timeline of water supply]: $115. Completed September 29, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_water_supply&oldid=17372 (22484 bytes, 2017-09-29 17:25 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_malaria_in_2015 Timeline of malaria in 2015]: $133. Completed September 27, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_in_2015&oldid=17316 (28633 bytes, 2017-09-27 21:30 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_hygiene Timeline of hygiene]: $137. Completed October 21, 2017. Competed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hygiene&oldid=17796 (26861 bytes, 2017-10-21 18:38 UTC)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_telephony_in_Finland Timeline of telephony in Finland]: $130. Completed November 20, 2017. Took about 15 hours. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_telephony_in_Finland&oldid=18635 (2017-11-21 02:41 UTC, 24524 bytes, 57 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Stripe Timeline of Stripe]: $200. Completed November 14, 2017. Took about 20 hours. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Stripe&oldid=18402 (2017-11-14 03:#7 UTC, 60868 bytes, 62 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Palantir_Technologies Timeline of Palantir Technologies]: $130. Completed November 14, 2017. Took about 11.5 hours (10-13 hours). Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Palantir_Technologies&oldid=18419 (2017-11-15 05:$1 UTC, 29865 bytes, 41 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_WeWork Timeline of WeWork]: $140. Completed November 15, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_WeWork&oldid=18466 (2017-11-16 05:53 UTC, 34620 bytes, 43 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Spotify Timeline of Spotify]: $160. Completed November 16, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_Spotify&oldid=18473 (2017-1-16 18:43 UTC, 41067 bytes, 45 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_universal_healthcare Timeline of universal healthcare]: $145. Completed November 17, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_universal_healthcare&oldid=18517 (2017-11-17 22:46 UTC, 26474 bytes, 61 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_salesforce.com Timeline of salesforce.com]: $230. Completed November 22, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_salesforce.com&oldid=18711 (2017-11-22 23:57 UTC, 63311 bytes, 84 rows)

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_telephony_in_Sweden Timeline of telephony in Sweden]: $100. Completed November 24, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_telephony_in_Sweden&oldid=18770 (2017-11-25 03:12 UTC, 20602 bytes, 54 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_irrigation Timeline of irrigation]: $120. Completed November 24, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_irrigation&oldid=18764 (2017-11-24 21:55 UTC, 23742 bytes, 41 rows).

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_nuclear_energy Timeline of nuclear energy]: $180. Completed December 28, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_nuclear_energy&oldid=19451 (2017-12-29 07:34 UTC, 36666 bytes, 67 rows)

=== Completed pages paid for by Peter (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $900

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_diphtheria Timeline of diphtheria]: $200. Completed May 26, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_diphtheria&oldid=14055

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_tetanus Timeline of tetanus]: $200. Completed May 26, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_tetanus&oldid=14088

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_the_environmentalist_movement Timeline of the environmentalist movement]: $400. Completed July 7, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_environmentalist_movement&oldid=15429

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_The_Sierra_Club Timeline of The Sierra Club]: $100. Completed July 11, 2017. Completed version at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_The_Sierra_Club&oldid=15545 Although originally the pay for the page was set at $200, already existing quality timelines made us decide to stop early and set the pay to $100

=== Additions to existing pages (Wikipedia) ===

Total so far: $190

* Graph for timeline of leukemia: $5. Completed January 1, 2017.

* Reference robustification for timeline of healthcare in Germany: $30. Completed January 2, 2017.

* Reference robustification for timeline of healthcare in Japan: $35. Completed January 2, 2017.

* Graphs for timelines of healthcare in Japan, India, Germany, and Ethiopia: $20. Completed January 2, 2017.

* Significant expansion of and reference robustification for timeline of influenza: $100. Completed February 21, 2017. Of the two extra graphs added, one was own creation.

=== Additions to existing pages (Timelines wiki) ===

Total so far: $533

* More rows added to timeline of typhoid fever: $25. Completed April 5, 2017.

* Porting over of graphs from Wikipedia for existing disease timelines (38 graphs ported) $50. Completed April 23, 2017.

* 16 new graphs on timeline of malaria giving funding distributions: $50. Completed April 23, 2017. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria&type=revision&diff=13420&oldid=13223 for the diff

* Expansion of the timeline of malaria: $65. This covers expansions starting AFTER the addition of graphs (April 23) and continuing till June 25. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria&type=revision&diff=15109&oldid=13420 for the diff

* Continued expansion and filling in the table for comparison of methods of malaria control: $90. This covers expansions after the reported timeline completion date of April 27 and continuing till June 25. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Comparison_of_methods_of_malaria_control&type=revision&diff=15116&oldid=13547 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of tuberculosis: $7. Completed April 25, 2017. About 1250 bytes added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_tuberculosis&type=revision&diff=13490&oldid=11922 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of hepatitis: $2. Completed May 30, 2017. 1 row and 402 bytes added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hepatitis&type=revision&diff=14205&oldid=11912 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of the National Institutes of Health: $2. Completed June 7, 2017. 1 row and 458 bytes added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_the_National_Institutes_of_Health&type=revision&diff=14509&oldid=13002 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of poliomyelitis: $20. Completed June 8, 2017. 11 rows and 3700 bytes added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_poliomyelitis&type=revision&diff=14555&oldid=13372 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of malaria vaccine: $5. Completed June 16, 2017. 2 rows and 1200 bytes added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria_vaccine&type=revision&diff=14811&oldid=13472 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of malaria: $20. Completed July 19, 2017. This covers expansions after June 25, 2017 and till July 19, 2017. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria&type=revision&diff=15860&oldid=15109 for the relevant diff

* Additions to timeline of waste management: $8. Completed September 26, 2017. Two new graphs added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_waste_management&type=revision&diff=17269&oldid=17062 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of healthcare in Ethiopia: $10. Completed August 22, 2017. Four events added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_healthcare_in_Ethiopia&type=revision&diff=16948&oldid=13342 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of hospitals: $3. Completed October 14, 2017. One event added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_hospitals&type=revision&diff=17630&oldid=11849 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of malaria: $5. Completed August 23, 2017. Two events added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_malaria&type=revision&diff=17001&oldid=15860 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of CRISPR: $12. Completed October 22, 2017. Five events added. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_CRISPR&type=revision&diff=17842&oldid=14655 for the diff

* Additions to timeline of bladder cancer: $45. Completed October 13, 2017. See https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_bladder_cancer&type=revision&diff=17616&oldid=11902 for the diff

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_mobile_telephony Timeline of mobile telephony]: $45. Completed November 21, 2017. See diff at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_mobile_telephony&type=revision&diff=18670&oldid=16990

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_healthcare_in_India Timeline of healthcare in India]: $8. Completed November 20, 2017. See diff at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_healthcare_in_India&oldid=18614

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_tuberculosis Timeline of tuberculosis]: $10. Completed November 20, 2017. See diff at https://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_tuberculosis&type=revision&diff=18603&oldid=13490

* [https://timelines.issarice.com/wiki/Timeline_of_water_treatment Timeline of water treatment]: $51. Completed Novermber 18, 2017. Added 17 graphs. See diff at ttps://timelines.issarice.com/index.php?title=Timeline_of_water_treatment&type=revision&diff=18559&oldid=17375

=== Other work for Peter ===

Total so far: $570

* Visits to animal farms in Zambia: $570. Completed October 5, 2017, including publication of reports. Breakdown: $360 for reimbursements, $180 for labor ($15/hour, 12 hours), and $30 for uploading content. See https://www.facebook.com/seba.sanchez.3998/posts/10156691896339377 for the summary post. See https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10156676891004377.1073741837.634404376&type=3 (visit 1, slaughterhouse/abattoir in Livingstone), https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10156677566689377.1073741838.634404376&type=3 (visit 2, modern chicken and cattle farm in Southern Zambia), and https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10156685699114377.1073741839.634404376&type=3 (visit 3, Siyakasipa Village where animals are reared by a village)

=== Stipends ===

Total so far: $2500

* May: $100

* June: $250

* July: $250

* August: $250

* September: $250

* October: $400

* November: $500

* December: $500

=== Subscription reimbursement ===

Total so far: $98

* Crunchbase 1-month subscription: $49

* Second Crunchbase 1-month subscription: $49

=== Payments made ===

Total paid: $12383.54

* Payment of $632.78 made via Western Union on January 18, 2017, received on January 19, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $653.62 made via Western Union on Saturday, March 4, 2017, received on Tuesday, March 7, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $651.71 made via Western Union on Saturday, May 6, 2017, received on Tuesday, May 9, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $651.61 made via Western Union on Saturday, May 13, 2017, received on Monday, May 15, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $628.39 made via Western Union on Saturday, June 3, 2017, received on Tuesday, June 6, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $633.91 made via Western Union on Saturday, June 10, 2017, received on Monday, June 12, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $625.28 made via Western Union on Saturday, June 24, 2017, received on Monday, June 26, 2017. Transaction fee of $8.

* Payment of $2981.61 made via Western Union on Saturday, July 8, 2017, received on Monday, July 10, 2017. Transaction fee of $30.

* Payment of $4714.33 made via Western Union on Wednesday, October 4, 2017, received on Thursday, October 5, 2017. Transaction fee of $30.

* Payment of $94.30 made via PayPal on Sunday, December 10, 2017, received on Monday, December 11, 2017. Transaction fee of $5.70 on original payment of $100.

== Work in 2016 ==

=== Summary ===

Total money earned as income: $4128

Reimbursement due (not taxable as income for 2016): $30

Payment made: $4668.37

Net payment due: ($510.37)

Note: Sebastian started work in April and took a break in June.

=== Completed pages ===

Total: $3538 (42 pages + 1 translation)

=== Totals by page type ===

* Timeline of healthcare in country X: $1521 (15 pages). Access Wikipedia views data [here http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Country%20healthcare%20timelines%20created%20by%20Sebastian%20Sanchez&allmonths=allmonths&drilldown=all]

* Disease timelines: $1466 (18 pages). Access Wikipedia views data [here http://wikipediaviews.org/displayviewsformultiplemonths.php?tag=Disease%20timelines%20created%20by%20Sebastian%20Sanchez&allmonths=allmonths]

(some others)

=== Totals by month ===

* April 2016: $400 (3 pages)

* May 2016: $681 (6 pages)

* July 2016: $455 (5 pages)

* August 2016: $575 (8 pages)

* September 2016: $550 (7 pages)

* October 2016: $596 (8 pages)

* November 2016: $23 (1 page)

* December 2016: $258 (5 pages)

=== Pages ===

* Dolor en los animales (Spanish translation of Pain in animals): $100. Published April 21, 2016

* Timeline of cholera: $100. Published April 23, 2016.

* Timeline of malaria: $200. Published April 27, 2016.

* Timeline of senescence research: $100. Published May 9, 2016.

* Rockefeller Sanitary Commission: $30. Published May 11, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in China: $160 (original $85, extra $75 for adding in some events). Published May 17, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in India: $131 (original $95, extra $30 for adding in some events, and then another $6 for more events). Published May 22, 2016, first updates last week of May 2016, second updates September 26, 2016.

* Timeline of influenza: $125. Published May 26, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Japan: $135 (original $100, extra $35 for adding in some events). Published May 28, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Cuba: $105. Published July 10, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Kenya: $80. Published July 18, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Germany: $110. Published July 21, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Egypt: $80. Published July 22, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Nigeria: $80. Published July 27, 2016.

* Timeline of cardiovascular disease: $140. Published August 1, 2016.

* Timeline of stroke: $75. Published August 5, 2016.

* Timeline of Alzheimer's disease: $75. Published August 13, 2016.

* Timeline of melanoma: $60. Published August 16, 2016.

* Timeline of leukemia: $70. Published August 20, 2016.

* Klerokinesis: $20. Published August 20, 2016.

* Timeline of lymphoma: $70. Published August 27, 2016.

* Timeline of lung cancer: $65. Published August 28, 2016.

* Timeline of brain cancer: $82 ($55 for initial version, $27 for updates). Published September 1, 2016, updated September 12, 2016.

* Timeline of tuberculosis: $90. Published September 8, 2016.

* Timeline of kidney cancer: $55 ($50 for initial version, $5 for updates). Published September 11, 2016, updated September 26, 2016.

* Timeline of colorectal cancer: $58. Published September 12, 2016.

* Timeline of pancreatic cancer: $60. Published September 18, 2016.

* Timeline of cervical cancer: $45. Published September 19, 2016.

* Timeline of hospitals: $160. Published September 25, 2016.

* Timeline of liver cancer: $49. Published October 1, 2016.

* Timeline of bladder cancer: $47. Published October 1, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in South Africa: $75. Published October 10, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: $40. Published October 13, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Ethiopia: $55. Published October 17, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in France: $110. Published October 22, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Italy: $110. Published October 26, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in Russia: $110. Published October 31, 2016, finalized November 7, 2016.

* Schedula Romana: $23. Published November 30, 2016.

* Timeline of healthcare in the United Kingdom: $140. Published December 5, 2016.

* Global Initiative for Traditional Systems of Health: $38. Published November 30, 2016, finalized December 5, 2016.

* Mario Pinotti: $20. Published December 9, 2016.

* Therapeutice Specialis ad Febres Periodicas Perniciosas: $25. Published December 28, 2016.

* European Virtual Institute for Malaria Research: $35. Published December 28, 2016, finalized December 29, 2016.

=== Additions to existing pages that are significantly different from new page creation ===

Total: $590

* Adding IARC and some other references to existing pages: $5. Done August 28, 2016.

* Graph for timeline of tuberculosis: $5. Completed November 22, 2016.

* Revamp of timeline of malaria, adding lots of new events plus new graphs: $185. Completed December 6, 2016.

* Second iteration of work on timeline of malaria, this time focused on reference cleanup and robustification: $80. Completed December 16, 2016.

* Revamp of timeline of cholera, adding lots of new events plus new graphs, and reference robustification: $160. Completed December 19, 2016.

* Filling in missing geographic locations for timeline of malaria, plus updating missing references in Wikimedia Commons: $10. Completed December 22, 2016.

* Reference robustification for timeline of healthcare in China: $55. Completed December 23, 2016.

* Reference robustification for timeline of healthcare in France: $33. Completed December 24, 2016.

* Reference robustification for timeline of healthcare in Italy: $30. Completed December 24, 2016.

* Reference robustification plus addition of new hospitals for timeline of healthcare in India: $27. Completed December 31, 2016.

=== Reimbursement payments ===

Total: $30

* $30 for payment to Daniel Alejandro Maidana

=== Payments made ===

Total payment amount received: $4604.37

Total transaction cost $64 (8 transactions, $8 each)

Total money: $4668.37

Each payment had a transaction fee of $8. Thus, the total amount we consider paid is the total of the payment amounts + ($8 * number of payments).

* First three payments of $100, $500, and $700 were in May 2016.

* Fourth payment, quantity $670, was initiated on July 23, 2016 (Saturday) and completed on July 25, 2016 (Monday).

* Fifth payment of $670 was initiated on August 20, 2016 (Saturday) and completed on August 22, 2016 (Monday).

* Sixth payment of $661 was initiated on October 1, 2016 (Saturday) and completed on October 3, 2016 (Monday).

* Seventh payment of $669 was initiated on November 5, 2016 (Saturday) and completed on November 7, 2016 (Monday).

* Eighth payment of $634.37 was initiated on December 21, 2016 (Wednesday) and competed on December 22, 2016 (Thursday).

