Full name: Vipul Naik

Wikipedia handle: Vipul

- Wikipedia user profile: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Vipul

- Contributions: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Vipul

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/vipulnaik.r

EA Forum user profile: http://effective-altruism.com/user/vipulnaik

Not paid :'(. 

== Immigration enforcement project ==

==== New pages ====

* Operation Hold the Line (1994 operation targeting border-crossing; sister op was Operation Gatekeeper, has a Wikipedia page)

* Mexican Interior Repatriation Program

* Alien Transfer Exit Program

* Criminal Alien Program

* Alien Criminal Apprehension Program

* Institutional Hearing Program

* Notice of Intent to Fine

* Consular Consolidated Database

* Consular Lookout and Support System
 
==== Improvements to existing pages ====

* Form I-94: Explain more clearly things like:

** Issuance at port of entry versus deferred inspection site
** Paper versus electronic Form I-94
** Form I-94W for VWP
** USCIS Form I-94

* Secure Fence Act of 2006

* Secure Border Initiative

== Current and proposed migration laws/bureaucracy ==

=== New pages ===


* W visa: Discuss this visa, that is part of some proposed immigration reform. Discuss the role of CGD and other players in shaping the potential visa. Compare with H-2B.

Purpose: Be better able to comment on grants to CGD, also on low-skilled immigration stuff to US in general

Priority: High

Status: Started reading

* Academic Training, the analogue for J-1 visas of Optional Practical Training. $150 for a page with comparable detail to that for the current page on Optional Practical Training.

Purpose: Complete my understanding of student/scholar visas and the options available on such visas

Priority: Low

Status: Not started

=== Improvements to existing pages ===

* Immigration Innovation Act of 2015: How I need to improve it: Discuss more of its provisions, where and how it got stuck. Also discuss criticism by John Miano of CIS.

Purpose: Help readers (and me) get a better understanding of various current proposals and where they stand.



== Migration history ==

=== New pages ===

Court cases:

* Nishimura Ekiu v. United States

* Chew Heong v. United States

* Lem Moon Sing v. United States

* Knauff v. Shaughnessy

* Kwong Hai Chew v. Colding

* Singh v. Clinton (potentially outsourcable)

* Henderson v. New York City

Laws:

* Foreign Miners' Tax Act

* Carriage of Passengers Act of 1855

* Improve list of US immigration laws

* Make sure each law links to others

* Links between court cases (after creating new ones)