From [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:El_C#Legal_threat.3F Legal threat?]; shared under a CC-by-SA license.

Inlinetext says "removal of my COI warnings is a serious breach of FTC regulations" on [[Talk:Parker_Conrad]].  Is this a legal threat?  The "paid editors" he is talking about were paid by someone doing philanthropic work simply to improve the quality of certain articles.  Doc James was in contact with Vipul (see Vipul's talk page) and everything seems to be in order. [[User:Jrheller1|Jrheller1]] ([[User talk:Jrheller1|talk]]) 19:59, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:I don't know that it is. Possibly. I need more context pertaining to the dispute (with links). In theory, s/he is quoting from [[m:Terms_of_use/FAQ_on_paid_contributions_without_disclosure|m:ToU]]—but did you remove COI warnings? And if so, why? I read [[User_talk:Vipul#Paid_editing_2|Vipul on paid editing]] and I am afraid that I am not seeing how it directly connects to this dispute. Nor do I understand what this dispute is even about.  [[User:El_C|El_C]] 20:31, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:: See Inlinetext's comments on [[Talk:Parker_Conrad]].  He (just guessing gender) is falsely claiming that there were "unlawful" paid edits on the page.  According to the link Inlinetext provided [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Alex+K.+Chen], an editor was paid a 25$ bounty by Vipul Naik for improving the page (which obviously is not illegal editing on behalf of a corporation). [[User:Jrheller1|Jrheller1]] ([[User talk:Jrheller1|talk]]) 20:42, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::I had already read that talk page—who removed COI notices, where & when? And why? I need details. Perhaps Inlinetext can better explain this [[User_talk:Inlinetext#Weighing_in|him or herself]]. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 20:50, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::: Inlinetext deleted more than half the page (and placed the COI notice based on the false claim of illegal paid editing) and I reverted his edits (all within the last few days).  I'm interpreting his edits as a more sophisticated than usual type of vandalism.  [[User:Jrheller1|Jrheller1]] ([[User talk:Jrheller1|talk]]) 21:04, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::In order: '''1.''' Removed more than half-of-what page? ([[Parker Conrad]]?) '''2.''' Placed COI notice on which page? '''3.''' And you had removed said notice why? [[User:El_C|El_C]] 21:18, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::: Yes, the page in question is Parker Conrad (for both deletions and COI notice).  I removed it because there was no improper paid editing and this user has done the same sort of thing on multiple previous occasions.  For example, he falsely accused the primary author of [[Geodesics on an ellipsoid]] of copyright violation (while deleting more than half of the [[Geodesics on an ellipsoid]] article and also placing a copyright violation template on the page).   [[User:Jrheller1|Jrheller1]] ([[User talk:Jrheller1|talk]]) 21:26, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::::Fair enough, though you've been light on evidence. (Personally, I like [[WP:DIFF|diff]]s.) But did the COI notice intimate ''improper'' paid editing or just paid editing? This is where evidence comes in. I'd still like to learn his or her side of it before rendering a decision. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 21:40, 3 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::::Oh, this is from the AN3 report I closed(!)—I didn't clue into that (I close a few). Now I'm remembering more. Anyway, I left Inlinetext [[User_talk:Inlinetext#Parker_Conrad_and_BLP|another note]]. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 01:11, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
{{od}}I am busy in real life for 2 days (48 hours). If you want, I will assemble some diffs before the 5 days page protection expires. I mention, in passing, that it is incorrect to say I "removed" more than half of [[Parker Conrad]]. The page history will show that I made a series of edits, each with detailed edit summaries explaining my objections to specific portions of text on that page. 'Jrheller1' consistently refuses to discuss content issues with me and simply reverts all my edits either without comment or by describing them as 'vandalism'. I don't see how setting out, during discussion in a content dispute, the relevant operative portion of the WMFs official FAQ on paid editing constitutes any kind of legal threat. Since the sum involved for the paid edits promoted by [[User:Vipul]] are not insignificant and run into tens of thousands of dollars, well exceeding the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Long-term_abuse/Orangemoody Orange Moody paid editing scandal] I am of the view that the case of [[User:Vipul]] and his extensive network of paid edits /editors must be investigated and dealt with by the Foundation because the [[Parker Conrad]] article is stated by [[User:Vipul]] to be first paid article of this "worker" who has thereafter received over $10,000 for paid editing from Vipul. Incidentally, I am not the only editor who has problems with Vipul and his network of meats, see [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Vipul&oldid=767404357#Conflict_of_interest link] for extensive edits in September 2013 to [[Bryan Caplan]] with [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bryan_Caplan&action=historysubmit&type=revision&diff=574899818&oldid=574826646 meat-puppetry by Simfish]. Eventually [[User:Id4abel]] cleaned up the Bryan Caplan article in much the same way as I did [[Parker Conrad]]. I also make the point that ''Jrheller1'' is yet to explain his past edit history at Wikipedia. He is clearly an expert editor in the maths domain [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Deriving_the_Schwarzschild_solution&diff=prev&oldid=696775355 first edit of Jrheller1] like [[User:Vipul]] is. This entire episode is very troublng and it is best handled by the Foundation and not on just one Administrator's talk page since it may be the tip of a larger paid editing scandal than OrangeMoody. I am also not clear why Doc James' input is relevant considering that he was removed from WMF's BoT and does not speak for the Foundation.[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 04:21, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
:Thanks for the explanation. Those levels of payments, if true, are indeed disconcerting. But what about my questions no. 1 and 2? I am the protecting admin, so for better or worse, I am administratively involved (for) now. But by all means, feel free to contact the Wikimedia Foundation at: https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Contact_us  [[User:El_C|El_C]] 04:37, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
::As I mentioned I am busy IRL. I am  very clear in my understanding of Q1 and Q2 but would like to properly frame my response, eg in terms of ToU issues transcending local community policies / guidelines and failed drafts. The $10,000+ is the payment to just one editor 'Simfish'. You can see an example of another of Vipul's paid meats [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Administrators%27_noticeboard/IncidentArchive947#Ethanbas ANI final warning]. It is clear that Vipul is paying some highly abusive and troublesome editors for some as yet undisclosed agenda. Will consider approaching WMF if this matter cannot be resolved within the community by discussion. [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 05:18, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
:::[[User:Ethanbas|Ethanbas]], really? Interesting. Fair enough, take your time. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 05:23, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
::::Hello everybody! I see my paid editing has been discussed here, so I wanted to clarify a few things: (1) The figure of $10,000 for Simfish (real name: Alex K. Chen) includes all work he has done; if you restrict only to Wikipedia editing and related payments the amount is closer to $6400. A full breakdown is available [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Alex+K.+Chen here]. (2) I don't control all edits by people I pay; the edit war and controversy that Ethanbas (real name: Ethan Bashkansky) got into were of his own volition and not paid for or otherwise requested by me. I did privately dissuade him from warring, and will continue to offer him candid feedback on the subject, but I don't control all his actions. Also note that most of the articles for which he got into edit fights were ones I am not paying for, but ones he created because he has become excited about contributing to Wikipedia (admittedly, his ''initial'' foray into contributing to Wikipedia was through paid work for me, but he's now editing it a lot of his own volition). (3) I don't know who Jrheller1 is (it's possible it is somebody who knows me, but I don't recognize the handle, and I haven't been in communication with this person). You can get a full list of the people I have paid for edits (with one exception, who requested the payment be made private, but this person has edited only one page and has not been part of any controversy) at [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com contractwork.vipulnaik.com]. Every editor who does paid work for me is required to disclose the fact on his or her talk page and link to my list of the worker's contributions and their payments. (4) Calling paid editors "meats" is disrespectful and misleading. I'm fully transparent about the work I fund, including revealing the real names and full identity (including social media identity and email addresses) of all workers, and all amounts paid (with one small exception as noted above). (5) My motives are pretty plainly stated at [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com contractwork.vipulnaik.com] and the articles I wrote that I linked at the top.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 08:08, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::''Only'' $6,500(?!). To quote [[Homer Simpson]]: {{tq|"Can I have some money now?"}}'''<sup>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iuslWRCnbyA] [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H27rfr59RiE]</sup>''' [[User:El_C|El_C]] 08:53, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
:::::: I don't give out money for free. If you want to make money off of me, you have to earn it. You can look at my [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/new-article-pool.mediawiki list of new articles and improvements to existing articles] that I would like to pay for. If you are interested in working on them, you can contact me via [https://www.facebook.com/vipulnaik.r Facebook] or email at vipulnaik1@gmail.com.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 18:01, 4 March 2017 (UTC)

{{od}}Thanks for joining us Vipul. I'm between meetings right now, so this is just a brief note to say that I am interested in carrying this discussion forward. 'Simfish' (who BTW doesn't conspicuously publish his paid editing affiliations) just happened to open his "bounty" account by creating an excessively NPOV/one-sided, puffed up and badly sourced article in May 2015 on the CEO of this startup which was then awash in scandal for (i) cutting corners aggresively in its regulatory duties in a highly regulated environment [https://techcrunch.com/2015/02/09/utah-state-legislators-vote-yes-in-support-of-zenefits-operations-in-the-state/ Feb 2015], (ii) aggressively stealing customers and being "[http://fortune.com/2015/06/30/zenefits-human-resources-software/ banned, demonized, and sued]" across the US and (iii) carrying on a massive public relations blitz to keep the unicorn afloat and investors coming in, happened to get only US$25 for a Wikipedia article on its founder who exited with a $10 million "bounty" after being [https://www.buzzfeed.com/williamalden/80-of-zenefits-deals-in-washington-state-done-by-unlicensed#.laQA2aEJg "found"] operating with 80+% of its employees unlicenced ? Excuse me while I laugh. This is not the first time Wikipedia has been used for 'pump and dump' operations and there are even some "badsites" which document those events in painstaking detail with diffs and which is why the applicable jurisdiction has regulators, like FTC, which WMF takes pains to obey.<br /> 
===Q&A===
====Q1====
'''Q1.''' Can you explain why the [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Parker_Conrad&oldid=662101190 article version you personally signed off on] for Simfish's bounty doesn't have a hint of any of the well known troubles then surrounding Conrad's company or Conrad ?  (and which troubles only escalated from that point forward). [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 13:10, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
: Hi inlinetext, glad to see your response. I find it unfortunate that you're so suspicious of my work despite the radical transparency I (and my workers) have practiced. Let me try to address your concerns. First, a little bit of historical context. [[User:Simfish|Simfish]] has been editing Wikipedia since the mid-2000s, but stopped working on Wikipedia in the last few years. In 2015, I approached Simfish with the idea of using some of his spare time to add content to Wikipedia. We were still figuring out exactly how payment and incentives might work to better meet my goal of promoting Wikipedia as a good source of knowledge. At that early stage (when both he and I were still figuring things out) I wanted to encourage him to create longer, more detailed articles. Of the articles he initially created, the [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Parker_Conrad&oldid=661902490 initial Parker Conrad article] (or maybe look at [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Parker_Conrad&oldid=662091501 this version] which is the state of the article after his last edit) was the first one that was not terribly stubby, and in order to encourage him to create more content of at least that length, I awarded him $25. As you can see from [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Alex+K.+Chen#workerTaskList here] this is marked as an "accidental/retroactive bounty", i.e., it wasn't an article I told him to create, but one I paid him for after he created it. Subsequent to that, both he and I improved our standards a lot, as you can see by looking at the later works he did for me, and the work I've gotten from other contract workers since then. Now, regarding omissions from that initial article he wrote, it's likely that he and I did not do as much research on the subject as we should have (and if I was funding an article like that now, I would push for more research). I don't think the troubles around Zenefits were that widely known at the time. Definitely, when I had created the Zenefits article on [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Zenefits&oldid=643493795 January 21, 2015], I had tried to get all the public information on Zenefits and hadn't come across a mention of these troubles. When Simfish created the Parker Conrad article, I didn't re-research the subject but simply relied on my memory of the situation from January when I had written the original Zenefits article, so therefore I missed any more recent controversies. However, I should note that even Simfish's short initial particle on Parker Conrad did include at least one negative thing about him -- his rejection of an employee who asked a Quora question -- which I think should address accusations of it being puffery. Neither he nor I (nor anybody else paid or instigated by me) have edited or otherwise interfered with the content of the Parker Conrad article after his initial edits in May. In fact, until yesterday, I wasn't even aware of the huge controversy surrounding the article's current state. I'm glad to see that the Zenefits and Parker Conrad articles that we created in 2015 (when the company was still looking like a fast riser) have evolved over time to reflect the controversies at the company. The continued evolution of Wikipedia articles to reflect changing realities excites me, and I'm proud that the initial content that I created (with the Zenefits article) and that Simfish created (with the Parker Conrad article) have been the starting point for this evolution.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 17:56, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
: I also wanted to address your question about whether Simfish has clearly disclosed his paid editing. It is true that at the time of the Parker Conrad article the information was not explicitly disclosed on his user page, partly because there were some aspects of policy we weren't fully aware of. On [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User:Simfish&direction=prev&oldid=732445705 July 11, 2015] he added the disclosure. In subsequent edits on [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User:Simfish&direction=next&oldid=671002294 August 1, 2016] and [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User:Simfish&direction=next&oldid=732445705 January 18, 2017], we added links to more detailed coverage of the paid edits, to make it easier for people to understand the details behind each individual payment. I find it unfortunate that people who hide behind pseudonyms, failing to disclose real-world identity, continue to attack us for being transparent about our real-world identity and full details of the work we are doing. It concerns me that this creates few incentives for others to follow in our footsteps in revealing information about themselves, for fear that it would open them up to unfair attacks and accusations.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 18:08, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
::Thanks, I have read it carefully, but the great and scattered detail of your reply engenders some additional '''preliminary''' queries /doubts for me.[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 18:52, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q2====
'''Q2.''' Is it correct that your network of paid editors involves / envisages multiple levels of membership and (some of) your team members receive commissions for recruiting other members and also a percentage calculated on income of other members below (or after) them ?[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 18:52, 4 March 2017 (UTC)

: Yes; however, I would not consider this a hierarchy but rather simply different kinds of payments for faciliating various parts of the process. For more context: in mid-2016, I was seeking to significantly scale up Wikipedia editing work, but the people I currently had on board did not have enough time to do enough work to meet my ambitions. Given my more-than-full-time day job, and my lack of a network with potential editors, I sought the help of some of these people to recruit others. I wanted recruitment incentives that would encourage them to find people who would do a lot of work. Therefore, I had a deal with [[User:Ethanbas|Ethanbas]] where I pay him a commission (usually 10%) of the work of people he recruits. I also pay [[User:Riceissa|Riceissa]] a similar commissions for all recently recruited editors; in turn he helps review their work and push for better quality and standards, while also guiding them on Wikipedia norms.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 19:15, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q3====
'''Q3.''' Is it correct that the income you / your network receives or distributes is linked to Wikipedia page views. I ask since your github pages report page view statistics quite prominently.[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 18:52, 4 March 2017 (UTC)

: I have experimented with pageviews-based payment for some editors (you can see these payments listed as "royalties" e.g. at the bottom of [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/worker.php?worker=Alex+K.+Chen this page]). The initial idea here was to encourage people to create content that was important to end users without me needing to micromanage the content creation. This worked reasonably well but over time I found that I was more interested in paying for direct work on articles than based on pageviews. Starting 2017, I have discontinued pageview-based payments for Simfish. My two most prolific current editors, [[User:Riceissa|Riceissa]] and [[User:Wikisanchez|Wikisanchez]] (in terms of edits I pay for, not including other edits they make of their own volition), as well as [[User:JesseClifton|JesseClifton]], a former prolific editor, did not receive any pageview-based payments. The main reason we report pageviews prominently is that it's something that the people I pay, as well as others who look at the contract work we do, are interested in. It gives people a sense of greater accomplishment and provides them feedback on (one measure of) the impact they are having. It also helps third parties better gauge the work we are doing.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 19:15, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q4====
'''Q4.''' Is there any particular reason that 'Simfish' declares his COI so inconspicuously at the very end of his user page ?[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 18:52, 4 March 2017 (UTC)

: You'll have to ask him that! I sent him a private message alerting him to this thread (since I'm not sure he checks Wikipedia notifications).[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 19:15, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q5====
'''Q5''' Is there any reason why your voluntary reports are not uploaded to Wikimedia servers but to 3rd party server accounts under your control ?[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 18:52, 4 March 2017 (UTC)

: The payment system setup is pretty complicated (I initially managed them as text files in a git repository, but then moved to a fuller accounting system which took me a couple of weekends to code up -- you can see the [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/commits/ commit history of the repository]). It's hard enough to get the whole thing set up on a personal server that I control; coordinating with a third party to host it (particularly when I am not aware of any existing system to upload this information) seems even harder. However, I welcome any third-party mirrors. The [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/LICENSE.txt license] for the repository allows for such mirroring.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 19:15, 4 March 2017 (UTC)
{{od}}{{tq|I think it's pretty strong circumstantial evidence that one (or both) of you have an off-wiki relationship "bounty" from [[User:Vipul]]'s network to harass me. [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 17:27 3 March 2017 (UTC)}}<br>
Going off of this questionnaire, {{u|Inlinetext}}, why did you accuse me of being a COI myself, or in talks with {{u|Vipul}}? I reverted those edits because, what I saw, were just unnecessary content deletions. &mdash;[[User:JJBers|<font color="red">JJ</font>]][[User Talk:JJBers|<font color="green">Be</font>]][[Special:Contributions/JJBers|<font color="blue">rs</font>]] 05:01, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:I don't intend to go off this questionnare so long as Vipul would also like to discuss these issues and find a workaround. This topic primarily concerns (possible) breach of ToU and contravention of local quidelines on paid editing / conflict of interest, so lets stick to that. The bright line rule here is a) The ToU requirements are sacrosant, b) local community guidelines may require stronger compliance than the ToU but cannot dilute ToU. Both you and 'Jrheller1' were clearly warned [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Parker_Conrad&action=historysubmit&type=revision&diff=768242414&oldid=768179579 warning to Jrheller1], [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Timeline_of_LinkedIn&action=historysubmit&type=revision&diff=768261488&oldid=768179021 warning to JJBers] that my reverts were for ''Breach of ToU and local community guidelines on paid editing best practices'' but you both reverted me. 'Jrheller1' even went to the extent of removing the mandatory conspicuous COI notice required by the WMF ToU '''without discussion''' from [[Parker Conrad]]. So since the paymaster of these conflicted / paid editors is now on this page and has admitted certain mistakes by his worker while developing the article, it is no longer only a case of proper sourcing (a local community requirement) but complete WMF ToU compliance, specifically FTC compliance on ''disclosures .. must be communicated effectively so that consumers are likely to notice and understand them''. You JJBers also ignored my previous edit summaries describing additional FTC breaches and restored the following WMF ToU breaching [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Timeline_of_LinkedIn&action=historysubmit&type=revision&diff=767857575&oldid=766908994 content] which I had carefully deleted. You should also be aware that both the ToU and the community COI guidelines are not restricted only to payments from/by the article subject but extend in scope to any payments received for edits. ie. it is not a proper defence to say "I was paid by Vipul and not by Parker Conrad". [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 07:22, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q6====
'''Q6''' Vipul, as a token gesture, would you consider deletion for all the "Timeline of .." articles and commit not to repeat those approaches ? A brief and well considered reply would be appreciated, thanks.[[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 07:41, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
: No. Also, that seems to qualify as more than a token gesture. Cheers! [[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 09:36, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::Fair enough :-) [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 10:55, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
====Q7====
'''Q7''' You probably recall the Form 1040 and Form 1120 community discussions, and also ""''It also helps third parties better gauge the work we are doing''"". Would it be fair for me to gauge, '''conservatively''', that you personally stand to receive between US$600,000 to US$900,000 for out-bound links your team inserted into Wikipedia articles which generated those 6 million+ page views? [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 10:55, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:''Wow!'' I'm very interested to find out the answer to that question. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 11:33, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::{{re|Inlinetext}} As someone trying to read up on this - could you explain where that guesstimate amount comes from, and what you're referring to when you mention outbound links and 6 million page views? Thanks, [[User:Samwalton9|'''S'''am '''W'''alton]] ([[User talk:Samwalton9|talk]]) 18:47, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:::{{re|Samwalton9}}, a fair place to start would be Jon's [https://www.hochmanconsultants.com/cost-of-ppc-advertising/ PPC trends]. Because Vipul has now started creating "records" of these discusssns on his own server, I would prefer not to disclose the specifics of this here since I don't believe the community has the proper analytical tools for this investigaton. However, my estimates are somewhat on the conservative side. [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 21:01, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:As a point of fact, I don't receive money from anybody for this project, or more broadly for work on Wikipedia. I ''have'' been looking for potential co-sponsors, but that wouldn't cover the work on tax forms work, and the co-sponsors I am looking for would need to have similar altruistic motivations (see e.g., [http://effective-altruism.com/ea/150/looking_for_global_healthrelated_wikipedia/#co-funding here]). I haven't considered raising money from people based on outbound links, nor has anybody reached out to me offering payment for outbound links. Therefore, the honest answer is that I don't ''know'' what the monetization potential of the outbound links is. With that said, your estimate seems like a huge overestimate. For instance, I know that advertisement CPMs are generally under $10 and generally average under $1 (that's $1 per thousand pageviews) which at 6 million pageviews would give $6000. References tucked in at the bottom of Wikipedia pages seem like way less visible to most people than advertisements on websites, so I am guessing the amounts you can command from such references is even lower. Overall, I would expect that maybe an enterprising person could have made a few thousand dollars off of getting paid for outbound links, but the volume and scale just wouldn't be enough to make the amounts of money you claim. But, as I said, I haven't tried making money this way and would not do so on Wikipedia. So it's possible I am wrong. But to me this is just an academic discussion with no relevance to the real choices facing me right now.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 18:59, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::That's a relief. Regarding the {{tq|relatively low (though still cumulatively substantial) pay}} that you are able to offer; and with respect to {{tq|a quick intuition of how companies' product, userbase, financial situation, and competitive landscape changed over time}}—just to be clear, no such companies were ever involved with your group in any way, like you serving as a consultant or any other position or affiliation therein, whatsoever? Thanks for answering everything in such thorough detail. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 19:19, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:::I have a full-time job (you can see information about it [https://vipulnaik.com/job/ here] -- not linking to company page directly to avoid SEO flowing wrongly). I don't have other sources of income apart from my job (+ interest on savings and investments). Nothing in the job involves Wikipedia or PR work. As for overlap between the companies, there might be some whose pages I have edited or paid to edit, that have at some stage had a (completely unrelated) business relationship with my company (usually much later), but the vast majority of companies don't fit that definition. To take the most prominent examples: [[timeline of Uber|Uber]], [[timeline of PayPal|PayPal]], [[timeline of LinkedIn|LinkedIn]], [[timeline of Pinterest|Pinterest]], [[timeline of Snapchat|Snapchat]], [[timeline of Airbnb|Airbnb]], [[timeline of Instagram|Instagram]], [[timeline of GitHub|GitHub]], [[timeline of Facebook|Facebook]], [[timeline of Google Search|Google Search]] -- all are completely unrelated to me personally or the place I work for. Also, if you look at the actual breakdown of edits I pay for, you'll find that the majority of the payments are for edits unrelated to technology companies. Many of them are related to disease timelines, country healthcare timelines, or other global health topics. You can see a breakdown [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com/#taskPaymentsDueByTopicAndYear here].[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 19:37, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::::Okay, thanks. I appreciate the clarification. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 19:47, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
: I have added links to my full transaction history (bank account and PayPal) from the main page at [https://contractwork.vipulnaik.com contractwork.vipulnaik.com]. You can compare the bank account and PayPal transaction history against the record of payments I have reported on contractwork.vipulnaik.com, to reassure yourself that I am reporting accurate amounts. Further, you can also check that I don't receive any payments other than my regular pay from my day job.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 20:15, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::I notice you mention you are dual-resident of USA and India. You are then surely aware that India is a notorious centre for black hat SEO and I'm pretty certain that you know the "street value" (say if hypothetically paid in cash or to your family members) of the prized outbound links your teams are systematically inserting in bulk, linking to sites/pages which carry advertisments and offer various services. I also draw your attention to, say, [[Peery Foundation]]. You are a veteran editor, surely you can see that the M.O. used by you to embed this (very poor) article is the same as OrangeMoody's. And if you have done nothing wrong, why are you creating [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork controversy records] on your github and [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/controversy/el-c-legal-threat.mediawiki archiving these threads], [https://github.com/vipulnaik/contractwork/blob/master/controversy/msjapan-noticeboard.mediawiki and also this] ? I hope you stand by "''not linking to company page directly to avoid SEO flowing wrongly''", especially since not everyone at Wikipedia is an altruist ;-). Cheers. [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 21:01, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::: Hi inlinetext, I have added the controversy threads mostly as a convenient point of reference for myself and others who want to understand the debates surrounding the content creation project -- including you! For myself, the advantage is that I can quickly locate past questions and how I answered them. For others, it helps them better understand how people on Wikipedia perceive the content creation project. It's part of my commitment to more transparency. Regarding the part about my company, I don't want to involve it because it has literally nothing to do with this whole business, and the only reason I reference it is to give clarity to my assertion that my income sources have nothing to do with my work on Wikipedia (or work I pay others for). Regarding my residency status, you are right that I am from India and am in the United States on a temporary non-immigrant status (see [http://vipulnaik.com/immigration-status from here]). India and the United States have ~1.2 billion and ~300 million inhabitants respectively, with huge variation between them, so any inferences you draw about me based on my relationship with these two countries is likely to be inaccurate :). I find your calculations of the monetization potential of these pages fairly off, but I already confessed my lack of expertise on the subject, so you could be right. Dragging my family members into this is inappropriate and unnecessary; I am not going to divulge their financial records to reassure you that no payments were made into this, so you'll have to take me for my word there. Finally, regarding the Peery Foundation page, I created it several years ago (before I started paying for contract work) as a foundation whose output charity evaluator [[GiveWell]] takes seriously. This was ages ago.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 21:21, 5 March 2017 (UTC)

====Q8====
'''Q8''' Don't you think the co-ordinated paid [[WP:SOCK|'''sockpuppetry''']] your team displayed on [[Form 1040]] wheel editing in full combined force against a lone editor explicitly contravenes the Terms of Use and also makes for a hostile environment for an experienced [[User:MSJapan|veteran editor]] who seems to have stopped editing after that ? <br />(NB: self declared Vipul team editors on that page - Vipul, Ethanbas, Majesticfish, Riceissa). <br />(NB-2: I use the proper ARBCOM (2005) defined term "sockpuppet" in place of "meat" which you deem disrespectful and misleading) [[User:Inlinetext|Inlinetext]] ([[User talk:Inlinetext|talk]]) 10:55, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
: The veteran editor you mention has gotten into a lot of disputes and it doesn't seem like the dispute with us was the reason for his departure. He's had a habit of repeatedly leaving and returning to Wikipedia. Our team did ''not'' display sockpuppetry on the page. Every editor who edited the page at my behest did so using their full real-world identity, and if there were multiple people who edited, it's because editing is a time-consuming process and different people in our team had time at different times.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 18:59, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
* This seems like the tip of a rather large iceberg. And there are issues of identity. Perhaps it is time to drop this matter in the laps of the Arbitration Committee and let them try to sort it out? [[User:Jehochman|Jehochman]] <sup>[[User talk:Jehochman|Talk]]</sup> 14:29, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::ArbCom is for issues that have gone through several and repeated attempts at resolution but have still not been resolved. Plus the Arbitration Committee themselves do not do any forensic research -- all of that is done by editors who choose to present evidence at an ArbCom case. Nor does ArbCom make policy. Given the responses that Vipul just made, it seems that real-world identities have been established and presented from the get-go (although with some such as {{noping|Simfish}} this is only provided in a link). Although Vipul's 'scheme' (to use the British term) is unusual and in parts somewhat hard to fathom, he seems very willing to be upfront about it and answer as many questions as are posed to him. [[User:Softlavender|Softlavender]] ([[User talk:Softlavender|talk]]) 20:05, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::At the risk of being accused of being a sock puppet myself, it seems like the confusion comes from the fact that people are unable to believe that Vipul would really spend his own money on Wikipedia edits for altruistic reasons. I've known him for a while as a FB friend and this is very much in line with what I know of his character. More to the point, it's in line with his general social media presence, which a simple Google search shows engages extensively with (for example) LessWrong, Quora, and EffectiveAltruism. Given that this is basically an individual attempting to orchestrate a group contribution to the social good, the results are pretty predictable: not everything will be perfect, and someone's going to find fault with something they do. Sure, some amount of cross-examination is an important component of a self-policing enterprise like Wikipedia, but wow: a dude spends a bunch of his own money on charity and then gets accused of all manner of dishonesty and profiteering. NB: I heard about this dispute from his Facebook page, but you can confirm the bit about his social media presence for yourself.[[User:Artificialintel|Artificialintel]] ([[User talk:Artificialintel|talk]]) 20:44, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:::This suspicion in his altruism may, indeed, be a factor. But we are mostly all volunteers here, and many spend their own money (in addition to their free labour). But almost all donate it directly to the Foundation. It is his money though, and he can spend it as he sees fit. It, however, is a somewhat complicated model he has setup, so some clarifications are due. And he only has to do it once. That said, I hope none of the above causes him to reconsider contributing to Wikipedia. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 21:00, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
:::: Thank you. I don't mind answering questions, but would prefer a more charitable and friendly way of going about it, that does not place a huge presumption of guilt on me. I've put a lot of information out there in the public sphere, and it would save everybody time if people first reviewed it thoroughly before making accusations. With that said, I also realize that not all the information I have put out there is easy to consume. I try to learn from discussions like these how to present my work more clearly to avoid needless confusion. Of course, at the end of it, we could still continue to have legitimate disagreements about what content is worthy of inclusion on Wikipedia and how much detail a given page should have.[[User:Vipul|Vipul]] ([[User talk:Vipul|talk]]) 21:13, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
::::: Fair enough. For my part, I've tried my best to host an exchange that welcomes all positive contributions to Wikipedia, while still remaining critical-minded. [[User:El_C|El_C]] 21:19, 5 March 2017 (UTC)
